===== FOMC MEETING 2019-01-30 =====

Meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
January 29–30, 2019 
 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board of Governors was held in 
the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on 
Tuesday, January 29, 201 9, at 1 0:00 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, January 30, 2019, at 
9:00 a.m. 
 
PRESENT: 
Jerome H. Powell, Chairman 
John C. Williams, Vice Chairman 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
James Bullard 
Richard H. Clarida 
Charles L. Evans 
Esther L. George 
Randal K. Quarles 
Eric Rosengren 
 
Patrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Michael Strine, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
 
Thomas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, and Mary C. Daly, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively 
 
James A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Michael Held, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
Thomas Laubach, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
 
Thomas A. Connors, Rochelle M. Edge, Beverly Hirtle, Daniel G. Sullivan, Christopher J. 
Waller, William Wascher, Jonathan L. Willis, and Beth Anne Wilson, Associate Economists 
 
Simon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account 
 
Lorie K. Logan, Deputy Manager, System Open Market Account 
 
Ann E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
 
January 29–30, 2019
1 of 255
 
 
 
 
Matthew J. Eichner,1 Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board of Governors; Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors 
 
Jennifer J. Burns, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, Board of 
Governors; Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors; Trevor A. Reeve, Deputy Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chairman, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Antulio N. Bomfim, Special Adviser to the Chairman, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Brian M. Doyle, Joseph W. Gruber, Ellen E. Meade, and John M. Roberts, Special Advisers 
to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Christopher J. Erceg, Senior Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors; David E. Lebow and Michael G. Palumbo, Senior Associate Directors, Division 
of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Edward Nelson and Robert J. Tetlow, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
of Governors; Jeremy B. Rudd, Senior Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of 
Governors 
 
Marnie Gillis DeBoer,
1 Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
Jeffrey D. Walker, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and 
Payment Systems, Board of Governors 
 
Eric C. Engstrom, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, and Adviser, 
Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Glenn Follette and Norman J. Morin, Assistant Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, 
Board of Governors; Christopher J. Gust, Laura Lipscomb,
1 and Zeynep Senyuz,1 Assistant 
Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Dana L. Burnett, Michele Cavallo,
1 and Dan Li, Section Chiefs, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Sean Savage, Senior Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
1 Attended through the discussion of the long-run monetary policy implementation frameworks. 
January 29–30, 2019
2 of 255
 
 
 
 
 
David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Kurt F. Lewis, Principal Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; 
Christopher L. Smith, Principal Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of 
Governors 
 
Ayelen Banegas, Senior Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Luke Pettit,
1 Senior Financial Institution and Policy Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors 
 
Pon Sagnanert, Financial Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Yvette McKnight,
2 Staff Assistant, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
 
Meredith Black, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
 
David Altig and Sylvain Leduc, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta 
and San Francisco, respectively 
 
Bruce Fallick, Marc Giannoni, Susan McLaughlin,
1 Anna Nordstrom,1 Angela O’Connor,1 
Keith Sill, and Mark L.J. Wright, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Dallas, New York, New York, New York, Philadelphia, and Minneapolis, 
respectively 
 
Roc Armenter,
1 Kathryn B. Chen,1 Joe Peek, Alexander L. Wolman, and Patricia Zobel,1 
Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, New York, Boston, Richmond, and 
New York, respectively 
 
Samuel Schulhofer-Wohl, Senior Economist and Research Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago 
 
 
 
2 Attended Tuesday session only. 
January 29–30, 2019
3 of 255
 
 
 
 
Transcript of the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting on 
January 29–30, 2019 
 
January 29 Session 
 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Good morning, everyone. 
SEVERAL. Good morning. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. I think I’ll start with a scheduling announcement. As you 
probably know, we’re expecting today as much as two inches of snow [laughter], which, as a 
native Washingtonian, I feel comfortable calling “a mighty blizzard.” And so we’re going to 
cancel tonight’s dinner. In fact, I think looking at today’s work, there is a good chance that 
school can get out early, maybe around 4:00. We’ll see how that goes. So there’s that. 
To begin: This meeting, as usual, will be a joint meeting of the FOMC and the Board, 
and I need a motion from a Board member to close the meeting. 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Without objection. As you know, we have a very full agenda 
for this meeting, so we’re starting earlier than normal in order to ensure that we’ve got ample 
time for a full discussion of the topics. 
Effective today, Presidents Bullard, Evans, George and Rosengren are voting members of 
the FOMC this year. Welcome back to each of you as voters. 
I’d also like to take a second to congratulate Stacey Tevlin. As many of you know, it was 
announced Friday that the Board had appointed Stacey as director of the Division of Research 
and Statistics, effective February 4. She brings to the division many years of leadership and 
research experience, a keen understanding of the U.S. economy, and extensive public service at 
the Fed. Stacey, we look forward to working with you in this new capacity very soon. Won’t 
you please join me in welcoming Stacey. [Applause] 
January 29–30, 2019
4 of 255
 
 
 
 
Finally, I just want to remind everyone that later in the day the Board’s photographer will 
come in for 5 to 10 minutes to take pictures—exciting action pictures [laughter]—of the 
Committee. 
With that, let’s dive into the organizational items on the agenda before moving on to the 
regular portion of our meeting. The first agenda item is the “Election of Committee Officers.” 
Following historical precedent, I will turn the floor over to the Board Vice Chairman, who will 
handle the nominations and elections for the positions of Chairman and Vice Chairman of the 
Committee. I will recognize Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you. I will be calling for two sets of nominations and votes. 
First, I’d like to ask for a nomination for Committee Chairman. 
MS. BRAINARD. I would like to nominate Jay Powell. 
MR. CLARIDA. Is there a second? 
MR. QUARLES. I second that nomination. 
MR. CLARIDA. Any other nominations or discussion? [No response] Without 
objection. Now I’d like to ask for a nomination for the position of Committee Vice Chairman. 
MS. BRAINARD. I would like to nominate John Williams. 
MR. CLARIDA. Is there a second? 
MR. QUARLES. Second. 
MR. CLARIDA. Any other nominations or discussion? [No response] Without 
objection. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you, Governor Clarida. Next, we turn to the selection of 
staff officers by the Committee. Jim, would you please read the list of nominated staff 
members? 
January 29–30, 2019
5 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. CLOUSE. Sure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For Secretary, James A. Clouse; 
Deputy Secretary, Matthew M. Luecke; Assistant Secretaries, David W. Skidmore and 
Michelle A. Smith; General Counsel, Mark E. Van Der Weide; Deputy General Counsel, 
Michael Held; Assistant General Counsel, Richard M. Ashton; Economists, Steven B. Kamin, 
Thomas Laubach, and Stacey Tevlin; Associate Economists, Thomas A. Connors, Rochelle M. 
Edge, Eric M. Engen, William Wascher, and Beth Anne Wilson, and, from the Reserve Banks, 
Beverly Hirtle, Daniel G. Sullivan, Geoffrey Tootell, Christopher J. Waller, and Jonathan L. 
Willis. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve these selections? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. A second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Without objection. Next on the agenda is the “Selection of a 
Federal Reserve Bank to Execute Transactions for the System Open Market Account.” Do I 
have any nominations? 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. I humbly suggest that we would be willing, at the New 
York Fed, to serve in that role. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Is there a second? 
MR. CLARIDA. I second. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Without objection. Next— 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. Well, wait. We didn’t have a chance for the others. 
[Laughter] 
January 29–30, 2019
6 of 255
 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Next is the “Selection of a Manager and Deputy Manager for 
the System Open Market Account.” Vice Chairman Williams, do you have any nominations 
you’d like to make? 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. I do. I would like to nominate Simon Potter and Lorie 
Logan to continue in their roles as manager and deputy manager of the System Open Market 
Account, respectively. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Is there a second? 
MR. CLARIDA. I second. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Without objection. Let’s move on to approval of 
Desk-related governance documents. Simon, would you please introduce the vote. 
MR. POTTER. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As part of the annual review of the 
Committee’s Authorization for Open Market Operations, the Desk requests approval of the 
Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations, with a single change that would make 
clear that small-value tests of rollovers and maturities are included in the $5 billion limit of the 
operational readiness testing program. 
Additionally, as discussed in the memo “Request for Votes on Desk-related Governance 
Documents” that you received prior to the meeting, the Desk recommends approval of the 
Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and the Foreign Currency Directive, without 
amendment. Staff will come back to the Committee later this year with some proposals for 
clarifying the language and governance regarding counterparties in the authorizations. 
I would like to highlight another item for the Committee’s consideration. In January 
2009, the Committee suspended the Guidelines for the Conduct of System Open Market 
Operations in Federal-Agency Issues in light of the Federal Reserve’s programs to purchase 
January 29–30, 2019
7 of 255
 
 
 
 
agency debt and agency MBS. The SOMA contains a significant amount of agency securities, 
and the Desk may need to reinvest principal payments on agency securities if their combined 
monthly total exceeds the current $20 billion cap imposed by the Committee. I therefore 
recommend a continued suspension of these guidelines. No Committee vote is needed to 
continue the suspension. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you, Simon. Is there a motion to adopt the domestic 
authorization with the proposed revision and the foreign authorization and foreign directive 
without revisions? 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Second? 
MR. CLARIDA. Second. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Without objection. 
Next up is the “Reaffirmation without revision of the ‘Program for Security of FOMC 
Information.’ ” As we all know, proper attention to information security is vital for allowing this 
Committee to function well. In light of this, we have a practice of voting on the program every 
year, regardless of whether there are changes. There are no changes proposed at this meeting. Is 
there a motion to reaffirm the program without changes? 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Is there a second? 
MR. CLARIDA. Second. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Without objection. 
The final item in the organizational part of our meeting is the “Proposed update to the 
'Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy,’ ” sometimes known as the 
January 29–30, 2019
8 of 255
 
 
 
 
consensus statement. The only proposed change this year is the usual update to the reference to 
the median of the projections of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment. With that update, 
which is based on the December 2018 SEP, the relevant sentence will read “In the most recent 
projections, the median of FOMC participants’ estimates of the longer-run normal rate of 
unemployment was 4.4 percent.” 
This is an important document—and I would suggest that, in a moment, we proceed, as 
we have in the past, with a straw poll of all Committee participants. By doing that, the minutes 
of the meeting can report the strength of support for the statement. Following the straw poll, 
we’ll have a formal vote of members of the Committee. Before the straw poll, though, I’d like to 
provide an opportunity for any comments that participants may have about the document. 
I’d note that, as you know, we have started a process of collecting input from the public 
on how we do our job. It is certainly possible that this process will lead to discussions later in 
the year about substantive changes to the consensus statement. Would anyone like to offer 
comments at this point? President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As many of you know, when this 
particular version was adopted, I voted against it, although historically I have generally 
supported the idea of a statement of long-run principles and, certainly, an inflation target for the 
United States. My objection is that I think that the statement, as it stands, is insufficiently 
forward-looking. It currently says that we would be concerned if inflation ran persistently above 
or below our inflation target, which is a backward-looking concept. I think the Committee could 
do more, and should do more, to be forward-looking and say what we mean by “hitting the 
inflation target over the medium term.” However, I don’t think we’re in a position to make that 
change today, so I support the statement for today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
January 29–30, 2019
9 of 255
 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Any further comments? [No response] If not, I’d 
like to now ask for a show of hands of all participants who support the statement with its minor 
update. [Show of hands] Are there any opposed to the statement or any abstentions? [No 
response] It looks like the statement receives unanimous support among Committee participants. 
Now we need a formal vote of members. Can I ask for a show of hands among all voters 
that support the statement in its updated form? [Show of hands] Any opposed? [No response] 
Thank you very much. That completes our organizational items. Let’s now turn to “Financial 
Developments and Open Market Operations.” Lorie, would you like to kick us off? 
MS. LOGAN.
1 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’ll begin on the first exhibit of your 
handout titled “Material for Briefing on Financial Developments and Open Market 
Operations.” 
Over the past few months, increased concerns about economic and policy risks, 
against a backdrop of weakening global growth momentum, have prompted a rise in 
financial market volatility and sustained declines in risk asset prices and interest rates, 
as shown in the first column of the top-left panel. Notably, the S&P 500 index 
remains nearly 9 percent lower since the September FOMC meeting, high-yield credit 
spreads are more than 100 basis points wider, and nominal Treasury yields are as 
many as 34 basis points lower, led by a significant narrowing in inflation breakevens. 
While financial conditions have eased slightly, on net, since the December 
meeting, which you can see in the second column of the table, this belies significant 
volatility observed during the intermeeting period. Investor concerns initially 
intensified following the December meeting, as the communications were perceived 
as indicating a lack of policy flexibility in response to tightening financial conditions 
and growing uncertainty about the U.S. economic outlook. In the last two weeks of 
the year, declines in interest rates and equities accelerated, as shown in the top-right 
panel. At one point, markets had even fully priced in a 25 basis point cut to the 
federal funds target range by early 2020, before retracing. 
To better understand these moves, we asked respondents to the Desk’s surveys to 
rate the importance of various factors driving market volatility in the fourth quarter 
and, specifically, in late December. As shown at the top of the middle-left panel, the 
most highly-rated factors in the fourth quarter were uncertainty about the U.S. and 
foreign economic outlooks, perception of the FOMC’s reaction function on interest 
rate policy, and the actual foreign outlook—largely echoing the list of drivers that we 
 
1 The materials used by Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). 
January 29–30, 2019
10 of 255
 
 
 
 
have gathered in our discussions with market contacts and that were described in the 
October and December FOMC briefings. 
In the December episode, however, seasonal factors and perceptions of the 
FOMC’s reaction function on balance sheet policy, rose in prominence compared 
with the quarter as a whole, as demonstrated with a shift from the red diamonds to the 
gray bars in the second- and third-to-last lines of the chart. The shift in importance of 
seasonal factors by survey respondents in December is broadly consistent with data 
and commentary we received. Trading conditions were described as orderly, but 
some market contacts indicated that price volatility was amplified by typical year-end 
factors, including thinner market liquidity, tighter balance sheet limits, and staff 
absences. As you can see in the middle-right panel, benchmark Treasury securities 
market depth was lower, in line with holiday periods in previous years. 
With respect to the change in ranking for the December episode regarding 
perceptions of the reaction function for the balance sheet, it appears that risk assets 
have been more sensitive to communications than to the recent realized changes in 
the SOMA holdings. Indeed, despite the increased market attention to the potential 
effect of so-called quantitative tightening, our survey respondents rated changes in 
global central bank balance sheets as a relatively unimportant factor in driving recent 
volatility, as reflected in the last line of the middle-left panel. 
Furthermore, survey respondents generally estimated that the implementation of 
reinvestment policy had only a modest effect on markets over 2018 and this year. As 
shown by the red diamonds in the bottom-left panel, the median estimate of the effect 
on the 10-year Treasury yield, 30-year MBS spreads, and the 10-year term premium, 
was an increase or widening of 8 to 10 basis points in each year. This is roughly 
consistent with responses to similar questions posed in September of last year and in 
2017 just after the reinvestment policy was announced. As shown in the bottom-right 
panel, though the distribution of responses was wider, the median estimated effect on 
the S&P 500 index was a decline of just 1 percent for both last year and 2019. 
There were, however, large and discrete risk asset price changes, particularly in 
equities, during the December press conference in response to remarks concerning the 
perceived degree of balance sheet flexibility in the future. The moves reportedly 
reflected market concerns that balance sheet normalization, or perhaps policy more 
generally, might be inflexible to tightening financial conditions and downside risks to 
the outlook. A consistent message taken by investors from remarks given by FOMC 
participants following the December meeting was the emphasis on flexibility in 
balance sheet policy in the event of adverse economic developments and patience 
with respect to changes in the target federal funds rate range. These messages were 
widely cited as contributing to the recovery in risk asset prices later in the period. 
As shown in the top-left panel of your second exhibit, survey results suggest that 
respondents do expect some degree of flexibility in balance sheet policy. That is, if 
the target federal funds rate range were to stay at the current level or rise, respondents 
expected the size of the SOMA portfolio to reach a level consistent with the staff 
January 29–30, 2019
11 of 255
 
 
 
 
forecast for the end of 2019, assuming no change in the reinvestment policy. 
However, if even a modest number of rate cuts were to materialize by end-2019, 
respondents expected some change to reinvestment or balance sheet policy. Perhaps 
unsurprisingly, the expected size of SOMA appears to be larger for lower federal 
funds target range outcomes. This seems to imply a lower perceived threshold 
associated with adjusting the rate of redemptions than was perhaps suggested by the 
2017 Policy Normalization Principles and Plans. 
With respect to patience in rate policy, relative to the previous survey, 
respondents now anticipate that rate hikes will occur later and there will be fewer 
hikes in total. As shown in the top-right panel, the median survey forecasts for the 
most likely level of the target rate now imply increases this year in June and the 
fourth quarter—compared with March and July in the previous survey—and the 
median forecasts no longer imply any rate increases in 2020 and 2021. 
Meanwhile, probability-weighted mean expectations for the target range at end-
2019 declined, as the perceived probability of no further hikes this year rose 
significantly, as shown in the middle-left panel. Several respondents attributed 
changes in their policy rate expectations to FOMC communications endorsing a 
“patient” approach to future policy actions in light of subdued inflation pressures and 
looming downside risks to the outlook. 
With respect to ongoing downside risks, the ECB and the Bank of Japan have 
recently acknowledged a worsening balance of risks, while market participants 
continued to see Chinese activity data as suggesting slowing economic growth, even 
as Chinese policymakers continue to make efforts to support the economy. While 
there have been some recent signs of progress in U.S.–China trade negotiations, 
ongoing frictions reportedly continue to weigh on sentiment, and trade policy changes 
enacted to date are generally viewed as having had an adverse effect on the Chinese 
economy as well as the earnings outlook for some large U.S. firms. Similarly, while 
the perceived probability of a so-called “hard Brexit” has reportedly declined, 
contacts emphasize that significant uncertainty and risks remain as the end-of-March 
deadline for Brexit legislation approaches. Tentative optimism with respect to China 
and Brexit contributed to dollar depreciation against the renminbi and pound, 
respectively, over the intermeeting period, as shown in the middle-right panel, while 
the shift in FOMC policy rate expectations led to dollar weakness more broadly. 
Steve will discuss these downside risks further in his briefing. 
Looking ahead, survey respondents expect that Federal Reserve communications 
will continue to emphasize patience and flexibility. In the bottom panel, we have 
summarized survey respondents’ expectations for the statement and press conference. 
Outside the universal expectation that the federal funds target range will remain 
unchanged at this meeting, views on changes to the statement language are unusually 
varied: About half of our survey respondents expect that the reference to “some 
further gradual increases” will remain, while about a quarter expect the phrase to be 
removed, though, regardless, respondents expect the language to emphasize patience 
or data dependence. Similarly, roughly half of the respondents expect risks to be 
January 29–30, 2019
12 of 255
 
 
 
 
characterized as “roughly balanced,” while about a quarter anticipate that downside 
risks or uncertainty may be acknowledged. Expectations regarding the press 
conference are more uniform: Nearly all respondents anticipate the Chairman will 
stress patience or data dependence and reiterate the flexibility of monetary policy or 
adopt a similar tone as recent Federal Reserve communications. 
Beginning on your third exhibit, I’ll turn to money markets and Desk operations. 
Overall, the current implementation framework continues to work well. As shown in 
your top-left panel, money market rates averaged within the federal funds target range 
over the intermeeting period, and the technical adjustment of lowering the IOER rate 
within the target range implemented after the December meeting passed through 
effectively across money markets. 
As shown in the top-right panel, since the December meeting, the effective federal 
funds rate remained equal to the the IOER rate, and the distribution of trades in the 
federal funds market was little changed. 
Daily changes in reserve balances and the spread between the federal funds rate 
and the IOER rate continued to show no correlation, as shown in the middle-left 
panel, suggesting that the federal funds rate continues to remain insensitive to daily 
changes in reserves supply. For example, over year-end, shown by the red diamond, 
reserve balances declined by as much as $100 billion, to $1.5 trillion. Nevertheless, 
unsecured markets showed no visible signs of pressure that would indicate reserve 
scarcity. 
While unsecured rates remained relatively stable over year-end, repo rates, as 
shown in the middle-right panel, rose in December and increased substantially at 
year-end. Volatility in repo markets around quarter-ends is not unusual; however, the 
increase in rates this year was much larger than anticipated. This has been attributed 
to the combination of typical balance sheet management around the year-end 
regulatory reporting date and a large net settlement of Treasury securities coinciding 
on the same day. The effect of these factors was likely exacerbated by the record-
high dealer positioning in Treasury securities. 
As shown in the bottom-left panel, dealer inventories have risen to historically 
high levels because of the increase in Treasury security issuance as well as reported 
selling by foreign official investors. As dealers often fund securities in the repo 
market, higher levels of dealer inventories have historically put upward pressure on 
repo rates. Indeed, due to the combination of these effects, repo volumes actually 
increased around year-end rather than contracting as in prior episodes. That said, 
there were no reported difficulties in market-functioning, and rates subsequently 
retraced their increase. 
As noted in previous briefings, bank lending of reserves into the repo market has 
picked up over recent months in order to take advantage of persistently elevated repo 
rates, suggesting that the banks engaged in this activity had not reached their lowest 
comfortable level of reserves. For a few banks already active in the repo market, the 
January 29–30, 2019
13 of 255
 
 
 
 
higher repo rates over year-end represented an attractive investment opportunity, and 
they increased volumes accordingly. Other banks that had sizable surplus reserve 
balances did not respond to the higher rates, noting that they either don’t make 
changes to their liquid asset allocation for transitory opportunities or are not currently 
operationally prepared to invest in repo. Taking this into consideration, as well as the 
fact that repo rates quickly returned to normal levels shortly after year-end, suggests 
the temporary spike should not be taken as a potential sign of pending reserve 
scarcity. Over time, if repo rates remain elevated, we would expect more banks that 
hold surplus reserve balances to adjust their liquid investment strategies and become 
operationally ready for repo investments. A few banks may even reconsider what is 
their lowest comfortable level of reserves. We intend to ask more about these 
practices in the next Senior Financial Officers Survey, which the staff intends to 
conduct in February. 
As we look ahead, staff projections suggest that reserve balances will remain little 
changed, on net, over the first quarter of 2019. The decline in reserves from ongoing 
principal payments on Treasury and agency MBS holdings is likely to be offset by 
decreases in nonreserve liabilities. As shown in the light blue line of the bottom-right 
panel, this is most notably expected to come from a temporary reduction in the 
Treasury General Account to $200 billion on March 1, as the U.S. Treasury will need 
to comply with debt-limit legislation. 
Before concluding, let me note a few operational announcements. First, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York intends to release a notice in early February for 
public comment on plans to include selected deposits into the OBFR calculation. 
Second, the staff has also begun work on publishing a series of backward-looking 
average SOFR rates in order to support reference rate reform. The plan is to solicit 
public feedback later this year and initiate publication of these averages by the first 
half of 2020. 
Third, the Desk expects to release a statement about our plans for the aggregation 
of Ginnie Mae I CUSIPs in February in order to lower custodial fees and improve 
back-office operations. We do not expect this to draw much reaction, as CUSIP 
aggregation is a common process and one that the Desk has been involved in 
previously in the case of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities. 
Finally, our plans for upcoming small-value exercises are summarized in the 
appendix. Over the previous intermeeting period, the Desk conducted only one 
small-value exercise of outright MBS TBA purchases. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, that concludes my prepared remarks. We would be 
happy to take questions. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Questions for Lorie? [No response] No one? 
President Kashkari. 
January 29–30, 2019
14 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Lorie, just a quick question on your 
exhibit 1, panel 4, “10-Year Cash Treasury Market Depth by Year.” And you may have said it, 
and I missed it, because I was staring at the chart. What is your “takeaway” from this? I would 
expect, I think, depth to go up just because there are more Treasury securities outstanding. If 
you could, walk me through it again. 
MS. LOGAN. The dark blue line is representing 2018, and you can see that over time it 
was a little bit above what we were seeing in 2017, 2016, and 2015. But it dropped precipitously 
on the year-end, down to levels that we’ve seen in other previous year-ends. The objective of 
showing the chart was just to say that depth was low at year-end, and so amplification of some of 
the price action that we saw is probably a factor that makes sense there. I don’t have a chart of 
how trends have developed more broadly. But I think you would expect volumes to, generally, 
increase, as the amount of Treasury security issuance has grown. But I think the main point of 
the chart was just to show you the year-end effects. 
MR. KASHKARI. Just the year-end. Okay. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Lorie, I think chart 3 is particularly interesting 
this time—the different factors that the respondents indicate could be increasing volatility. I’m 
thinking back on our December meeting and what this can inform us about. I think the surprise 
to me was the market reaction to the balance sheet discussion at the press conference. 
Now, I wonder if there is anything in the survey, or your discussions with market 
participants—looking at the chart, the interest rate reaction function is important, but the balance 
sheet reaction function initially wasn’t as important, and then it moved up at the end of the 
month. I know my own reaction to Jay’s answer on the balance sheet was, “Yes, I’ve heard that 
January 29–30, 2019
15 of 255
 
 
 
 
before, and I’ve given answers like that, too.” But it seemed to be interpreted quite differently 
than most of us were expecting. Anything from the survey respondents that could help sort 
through some of that? 
MS. LOGAN. I think in the briefing at the December meeting, Simon showed a chart 
that had the central bank flows of activity, and I believe President Kashkari asked a question 
about that. We wanted to emphasize that quantitative tightening (QT) had picked up in 
conversation, but it was difficult for us to see the effects of the actual change in flows affecting 
asset prices. Nevertheless, the conversation had really picked up in markets. 
I think this chart is interesting because, for those who we survey who may have a broader 
and stronger understanding of the Fed, the actual flows don’t seem to be influencing prices. But 
the reaction to the balance sheet did increase, and I think that is because there is some dispersion 
of expectations about how long the balance sheet normalization process is going to continue. 
I think we’ve seen markets coming to a closer estimate regarding the completion of 
balance sheet normalization than in recent surveys. Last time the survey showed that the median 
estimate was that the balance sheet would come to an end in Q1 of next year, but there is still 
quite a bit of dispersion there. And so I think when that communication was in the market, that 
wider dispersion of audience reacted. And I think, over the year-end, maybe that wider 
dispersion was the marginal investor, particularly as so many market participants had closed their 
books going into year-end. And I think there was just a lot more volatility in reaction to that. 
MR. EVANS. One question that comes to mind, and it’s impossible to answer, because 
it’s a hypothetical counterfactual, but is there a way to get a better idea of the independence of 
the attention on the balance sheet dynamics, as opposed to the Committee’s decision at the 
meeting to increase the target range, which was expected? But given, perhaps, the marginal 
January 29–30, 2019
16 of 255
 
 
 
 
investor thinking that wasn’t the best move, then on top of that, the rigidity of the balance sheet 
answer—if, in fact, we hadn’t raised the target range, would they have reacted the same way? 
So, independently they care about the balance sheet? Or is it they’re getting caught up together? 
MS. LOGAN. My perception from the market participants that we talked to—and we 
talked to a much wider range over this intermeeting period to better understand it—I think it is 
the combination— 
MR. EVANS. Yes. 
MS. LOGAN. —of those two, and whether one is moving in the opposite direction of the 
other, that is confusing the signal of the main one, which was on interest rates. 
MR. POTTER. And I’d like to emphasize that the balance sheet has been coming down; 
rates have been going up. This was the first meeting where a rate increase wasn’t 100 percent 
priced in. So there was some viewpoint that was a little bit different. It was more like 
80 percent. So that was a change in the circumstance. 
MS. LOGAN. I think in the conversations we did have with this much wider set of 
market participants, their understanding about the balance sheet and its connection to the long-
run framework is a lot less expert than maybe the people that we’re normally surveying here who 
follow the Fed much more closely. And I think we were seeing the reaction in December of that 
audience that just isn’t able to tie the connection between the balance sheet and the long-run 
framework. So maybe they had an idea about the magnitude that the balance sheet could be 
declining that wasn’t really in the set of expectations that we’re really talking about here. 
MR. EVANS. Great. No, thanks very much. These are very helpful comments, and this 
is the kind of information that we need to be taking onboard. So I appreciate this. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. President Bullard. 
January 29–30, 2019
17 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I notice President Evans said that he was 
going to ask an unanswerable question, so I hope mine’s answerable. Just to follow up on this a 
little bit, do markets think that the two tools of monetary policy always have to move in the same 
direction, otherwise there will be a conflicting signal given and they won’t know how to interpret 
that? Because that’s something I sometimes hear from people. 
MS. LOGAN. The type of market participant that we’re collecting the survey from, I 
think they understand that one tool could be in the background and the other tool could 
compensate for that second tool. So I think that, logically, they understand that, but I think for 
this much broader audience who are less familiar with these things, the two going in different 
directions would confuse the signal for them, because they’re just less knowledgeable and 
comfortable regarding the balance sheet. 
MR. BULLARD. For the Committee, I guess my comment on this is that this is not 
something that the Committee contemplated previously. I think we always did our projections, 
and the rates were going to go up to some neutral level, and the balance sheet was going to come 
down to some appropriate level, and then everything was going to be in steady state. And so I 
think this is a difficult issue for the Committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Again, on this theme, Lorie, in exhibit 2, under the list of expectations 
for the statement and the press conference, for the press conference there was an expectation that 
it would “Reiterate the flexibility of monetary policy.” I’m curious whether there was any 
distinction between the primary tool of interest rates or the balance sheet. Or do you think it 
encompasses both of those? 
January 29–30, 2019
18 of 255
 
 
 
 
MS. LOGAN. In the survey’s qualitative answers, I don’t think I saw a lot of distinction 
there between those three themes. I think those three themes represented both of those things. 
MS. GEORGE. General flexibility. 
MS. LOGAN. General flexibility and patience. 
MS. GEORGE. Okay. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thanks. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. You hear market commentary, occasionally, that certain words 
trigger particular kinds of program trading, and I was wondering, have we done any surveys to 
understand which words in our statement actually may be preprogrammed in some of the kind of 
artificial intelligence programs? You do hear market commentary, particularly about certain 
correlations that generate subtle signals, and I’m just wondering if our own communications—
have we spent any time thinking about whether there are buzzwords, or the use of buzzwords, 
that are more likely to trigger market reactions? 
MS. LOGAN. I agree, we sometimes hear from market participants that a Bloomberg 
headline or the way it was done may have triggered some activity. So I think that does happen. I 
haven’t myself heard any discussion of that with respect to specific words used by the FOMC. 
One interesting thing is, there was one other factor that we included in the survey that’s 
not on here, which was about algorithmic trading, and it didn’t change much even in that 
December period. We’ve heard some people talk about whether the electronic trading amplified 
things in December, and that factor didn’t really change from Q4 to December, which I thought 
was interesting. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. President Barkin. 
January 29–30, 2019
19 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. BARKIN. There have been some commentators who would suggest that our 
balance sheet moves have, in fact, started to tighten the market and have, in fact, contributed to 
volatility. I know that’s not our view for the most part. If you took a generous view of those 
comments, what would be the indicators that would best support that situation, just to allow us to 
see the other side? 
MS. LOGAN. There is a chart that’s been widely circulated in the market that shows the 
MSCI World Equity Index and central bank holdings. And, if you do that chart just right, it 
shows a high connection between those series. There are a lot of questions about that chart, 
particularly the inclusion of emerging market (EM) foreign reserves holdings in the central bank 
holdings. But I think that market participants who believe that story use that chart. 
We tried to get at that more systematically by asking these questions in panels 5 and 6, 
and for those that we’re surveying, they’re not seeing those effects from those flows. But if you 
look at panel 6, there are those outlier dots there, and so even in our survey there are a few 
participants who think the effects could be quite large. 
On the basis of talking with some of those participants, though, I think it can be just the 
investor beliefs that affect risk sentiments and may not necessarily be the actual flows. But I 
think the best chart that’s been going around is that chart giving the MSCI World Index and 
central bank holdings. 
MR. LAUBACH. Mr. Chairman, if I can just quickly add one observation: Participants 
have in the past, of course, communicated that, in fact, balance sheet reduction is removing 
accommodation. So there are estimates out there—I remember that Chair Yellen in early 2007, 
in one of her speeches, made that pretty clear—and we have FEDS Notes out there, et cetera. I 
January 29–30, 2019
20 of 255
 
 
 
 
know that now some of the commentary makes it sound as if this was all news. That’s not quite 
accurate. That point has been made by participants. 
MS. LOGAN. Yes, and I think in chart 5, with 10-year Treasury yield effects and the 
term premium, those line up to what the estimates in the research have shown. So the median 
market participant in the survey is giving back answers that line up with those research studies, 
the actual effects. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I just wanted to have a clarification and make sure I understand. I’m trying 
to figure out how much signal to take from the disruption that happened after the use of the term 
that we’ve been using for a while in the press conference. And I thought you referenced the fact 
that some of the investors closed their books at the year-end and so the marginal investor might 
be some of these individuals who have less understanding of the Fed, moving the market more 
than we normally would see. So do you expect that to have amplified what we saw and then go 
away as we move off this year-end? And so should we be less worried about our future 
communications being so misinterpreted and then having real effects? How should I think about 
that? 
MS. LOGAN. With respect to the year-end story, I was trying to say that I think there 
was some amplification, but I still think there were some people who were reacting to the 
communication itself. And I think that President Bullard’s question is where I would go, that 
when the two tools were working in the same direction, it was really in the background, but then 
when they were working in different directions, I think the balance sheet reduction schedule 
maybe came to the forefront, particularly for investors who don’t understand the connection of 
the balance sheet to the long-run implementation framework. For those who don’t have a sense 
January 29–30, 2019
21 of 255
 
 
 
 
of how the balance sheet would likely unwind in order to transition into the long-run 
implementation framework, maybe they had different estimates of where the balance sheet was 
ultimately going to be. 
MR. POTTER. Just to help—If you go to panel 8, you can see the market path around 
the December FOMC meeting, and that was pretty flat. So this was a point, as President Bullard 
said, where there was an option for the two tools to be not necessarily working in the same 
direction, and that might be what amplifies it. 
MS. DALY. Okay. That’s helpful. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Just to follow up on all of this, I might suggest—and I think you’re 
already having these conversations—a contextual question, away from the Fed. There’s a lot of 
discussion in the market about how two-way liquidity today is substantially lower than it was 10 
years ago. And then there are a number of hypotheses as to why. One is, is it algorithmic 
trading? Is it ETFs? There’s lately been a discussion of the fact that Treasury issuance is going 
to be substantial, and that’s going to take money out of the private sector. 
And this subject comes up a lot more when the market is going down, and when earnings 
are going down, than when they’re going up, and we’re in one of those periods. But I do think, 
for me, I would find it useful—away from the Fed, questions about us—what is, in fact, going on 
with two-way liquidity in these markets? Because I think that’s the context in which the Fed 
balance sheet then enters the discussion. And I think it reached its zenith in December, but I 
don’t think we’ve seen the last of it. 
And, no, I don’t think this is the last episode, because—and it could be related to the 
Volcker rule, or could be other things—but two-way liquidity in these markets, from the 
January 29–30, 2019
22 of 255
 
 
 
 
numbers I’ve seen, is substantially lower. Then the question is, do you see the same thing, and 
why might that be going on? 
MS. LOGAN. I think Mike Kiley is going to talk a little bit about this in the financial 
stability briefing later, and I believe he has a chart that’s going to show some decrease in 
liquidity measures for equities over the broader Q4 period, not just December. 
We do hear a lot of commentary from market participants about, in a period of stress, 
with dealers less willing to hold inventory, that would amplify price action. But I would say that 
I was surprised by the focus among the respondents to this survey. There was some seasonality 
as an effect from amplification, but some of those other factors didn’t come up in higher ratings. 
MR. KAPLAN. I would back off to maybe 50,000 feet and, maybe in your next 
questions, take a longer term—not about the past quarter, but over the past several years. 
MS. LOGAN. Yes. 
MR. KAPLAN. What are the market structure changes that are going on? I think this 
may have a lot to do with that, before you even get to the role of the Fed. 
MS. LOGAN. I think Mike Kiley will talk a little bit about that. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. President Kaskari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thanks. I’m sure you’re ready to move on, Mr. Chairman. One 
quick follow-up. I’m stuck on the notion that people perceive these two tools as working in 
opposite directions because, when I look at this, I’m trying to understand: How can the balance 
sheet roll-off explain low rates—low Treasury yields—and high spreads? 
The way I can explain that is, if people looked at the increase in December, and our 
commitment to the roll-off, as an overall “hawkish” signal, that the Committee has a “hawkish” 
posture, that would cap inflation expectations—so, keep rates low—and then that would affect 
January 29–30, 2019
23 of 255
 
 
 
 
corporate earnings, which would then lead to higher spreads. So I guess I looked at it as just a 
hawkish interpretation of the Committee, not that these two tools were working in opposite ways. 
I’d welcome your response, because I may not have it right. 
MS. LOGAN. I think that’s what I was trying to get at, in talking about when the two 
tools are working in different directions and you get information about one. Maybe it reshapes 
your thinking about how the reaction— 
MR. KASHKARI. But I’m saying they’re working in the same direction. I’m saying, we 
raised rates in December, and the statement says “further gradual increases,” and the Chairman 
says—which we have all been saying—“the balance sheet runoff is going to be like paint drying. 
The balance sheet is just going to keep rolling off.” I think, in the context of a somewhat 
weakening global economy, people said, “Wow, the Committee is really ‘hawkish’ overall,” and 
then that led to these lower rates and higher spreads. 
MR. POTTER. The version that someone said to me was, an 80 percent chance that rates 
were going to go up at the meeting, and 20 percent that the balance sheet would look more 
flexible at that point. You came out of the press conference with a 100 percent likelihood of a 
rate increase and zero flexibility on the balance sheet, in the perception of these investors. So 
that is one version of it being more “hawkish.” I’m not sure that that completely captures how 
complex it might be to communicate about both tools. 
MR. KASHKARI. I see. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. I have a question that relates to how to operationalize all of this 
in going forward. So this group of people, very focused on QT, seems to have reacted positively 
to the message that “We hear you, we’re listening carefully, and we don’t agree with you, but if 
we do come to a conclusion that any aspect of normalization is presenting problems for the 
January 29–30, 2019
24 of 255
 
 
 
 
achievement of our goals, we wouldn’t hesitate to make a change.” They seem to have reacted 
well to that. So the question, I guess, I have for you is, in your discussions, if these are people 
who, to some extent, aren’t close Fed watchers, but are more learning about this—are they 
learning about this? In other words, in your conversations—all of the newsletters that we all 
read support our position. Do they read these newsletters? Are they coming around, or are they 
out there waiting, and still believing that they’re right and still wanting satisfaction? I don’t 
know if you can shed any light on that. 
MS. LOGAN. It’s hard for me to say. I would say, in some of the conversations, even 
within an individual firm—if you talk with different trading desks within an individual firm, you 
have the same strategist writing the piece that’s shared broadly with them, and you’ll get very 
different answers to some of these questions. For some of those who believe the QT story, I’m 
not sure they changed their views. Maybe they got more comfortable with the language, but I 
think they still, in the background, may be thinking that the QT part of it does matter. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Let me just say, a couple of weeks ago we had two very well-
known economists from major firms—who completely see this as we do—come in and deliver a 
message from their risk people, which is the QT message. I’m just delivering this message. If 
you ask them outside the meeting, they say, “No, that’s not how we see it at all,” but that’s how 
these people see it. So it seems to me that the working hypothesis has to continue to be that they 
still believe this, and they are still out there and are looking for some kind of satisfaction. And 
that satisfaction would come in the form of stopping, or slowing the pace of balance sheet 
shrinkage, I suppose, as opposed to something else. 
MR. POTTER. Well, there could be some absolute truth out there, but the hope that we 
could pass on absolute truth might be difficult. 
January 29–30, 2019
25 of 255
 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Darn. [Laughter] No, but I’m saying—anyway, this is a 
crucial question that’s very hard to answer, I realize. 
MS. LOGAN. I would just reemphasize, I think, the point that you made: I think within 
an individual firm, if the person believed in the QT story, I think they still— 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Well, the person making the investment decisions is not our 
friendly economists sitting at this table who are visiting with us. It’s the people back in New 
York who are actually trading. And that’s who they are speaking for. 
MR. POTTER. And they all respect that chart and the fact that they can see risk assets 
move a lot when there are any words about the balance sheet that some people don’t understand. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Yes. I guess on this point, for me the question I wrestle with is, how do 
we weight across the different views? I don’t know that it’s reasonable to expect that we should 
get 100 percent consensus supporting our take on the world, and so there has got to be some 
handicapping across the distribution of viewpoints, and each of us has to make a decision about 
how we’re going to take that information to inform us on what our right course of action is. And 
for me, I’ll say I haven’t seen the QT argument rise to the level of broad-based consensus, that it 
gives me very much concern. But that’s just my perspective, and I think each of us has to 
weigh that. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. I’ll just say, I’m not weighing whether it’s persuasive. I’m 
weighing whether it will affect market conditions in a way that interferes with our normalization 
process. That’s the question for me. I’m not going to wind up agreeing that they’ve got this 
figured out. They seem to be reacting to a signal about tightening, I think, that they see it as too 
much. It’s sort of a signaling channel, if you will. At least that’s how I see it. 
January 29–30, 2019
26 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. POTTER. I would just add that we don’t completely understand what asset 
purchases do for the balance sheet. I would say, over the past six weeks, I might have put a 
small weight on some of these people. My weight has actually gone up, but I want to understand 
a little bit more why it has this impact. I’m not saying it’s a big weight, but we should be 
humble in this, because we don’t completely understand all of the channels by which asset 
purchase affect financial markets, and then declines in assets as well. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. And that was really the point of my initial question, because the other 
thing that has happened in the time that we started to pay more attention to QT is that we’ve 
gone out and said that we’ve got to be more patient, and the entire trajectory of rates is now more 
in question. So it’s those two things together that make disentangling the real contribution of 
whether it was QT, or was it the entire view “I’m nervous about the stance of monetary policy. 
Since you’ve said you’ve raised rates in December, I’m really worried about the balance sheet.” 
But now, looking forward with the rate path, it might be that this isn’t quite as big of an issue. I 
don’t know the answer to that, and that’s why— 
MR. POTTER. The one difference is that, in the taper tantrum, interest rates moved up, 
and risk assets moved down. This time, interest rates went down, and risk assets went down. So 
that’s something that we should be looking at and studying. And, as President Kaplan said, we 
need to talk to more people to understand if there is something that we could explain better, or 
there is a feature of the market that is producing this, or was it just some freak of a particular part 
of December. 
January 29–30, 2019
27 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. KAPLAN. My sense is there is a structural change going on in the market, 
independent of the Fed, and then we walk into that. But if we did some more diagnostic work, I 
would support that. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Last point. I’ll get into this more later. But, to me, the real 
echoes of the taper tantrum here were market participants clearly conflating the taper with 
interest rates. And, try as we might, it was very hard to fix that. We just had to address it as a 
reality. 
Anyway, this has been very interesting. Thank you very much. 
Next we need a vote to ratify the domestic open market operations conducted since the 
December meeting. Do I have a motion to approve? 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. And now we move to our 
special topic of “Long-Run Monetary Policy Implementation Frameworks.” And we’ll begin 
this with briefings from Simon and Trevor. Simon, would you like to begin? 
MR. POTTER.
2 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will be referring to the handout 
labeled “Material for Briefing on Long-Run Framework for Policy Implementation 
and Transition Plan.” 
Since late 2008, the Federal Reserve has implemented interest rate policy using 
administered rates and has not actively managed the level of reserves to achieve the 
FOMC’s policy rate target. For some time, the FOMC has indicated that, over the 
longer run, it wants to operate with asset holdings that are no larger than necessary for 
the efficient and effective implementation of monetary policy. In this briefing, I will 
provide an assessment of how effective the current regime has been, then discuss how 
the FOMC can use the efficiency criterion in an ongoing manner to judge the 
appropriate level of reserves and thus operate with asset holdings no larger than 
necessary. I will conclude by discussing how you might transition from the current 
pace of reserve decline to one that will facilitate the FOMC’s assessment of 
appropriate reserve levels and other decisions it will need to make about the portfolio 
 
2 The materials used by Messrs. Potter and Reeve are appended to this transcript (appendix 2). 
January 29–30, 2019
28 of 255
 
 
 
 
over time. Trevor will then discuss how the Committee might communicate to the 
public about the progress on balance sheet normalization. 
The standard interpretation of an effective implementation framework is that it 
provides excellent control of the central bank’s policy interest rate, strong 
transmission of the policy rate to other money market rates, and it more generally 
helps ensure that the monetary policy stance is reflected in broader financial markets. 
The current regime has been, and is expected to remain, a success along these 
dimensions. Over the past 10-plus years, there has only been one day when the 
effective federal funds rate was outside the FOMC’s target range. Over this time, 
there have been dramatic changes in money markets, regulation, and financial 
institutions’ business models. Further, the level of the reserves in the banking system 
has ranged widely. The regime has been adapted over time in light of experience—
these adaptations including, most notably, the introduction of the overnight RRP 
facility to provide a firmer floor for all money market rates. A critical test of the 
effectiveness of the current system was met in the Federal Reserve’s ability to raise 
rates smoothly in December 2015 in a situation of around $2.5 trillion of reserves in 
the banking system. 
As reserves have come down from their peak of $2.8 trillion and overnight rates 
have moved substantially above the zero bound, concerns raised by academics and 
some money market participants that the regime would be less effective, with 
increased dispersion across money market rates, have not been realized. Indeed, as 
shown by a measure of dispersion in individual trades in money markets in panel 1, 
the effectiveness of the regime has increased. An important adaptation behind this 
improvement last year was two technical adjustments of the location of the interest 
rate on reserves in the target range. 
The main strength of the current system is that it works effectively with a wide 
range of reserve levels. The effectiveness criterion does not, however, help you judge 
the appropriate level of reserves. For this, the efficiency criterion becomes relevant. 
There are a number of perspectives from which you could consider efficiency, all of 
which have been touched on in previous staff analyses and in your own discussions. 
First, from the perspective of financial institutions transacting in money markets, a 
sufficiently high level of reserves allows these institutions to avoid inefficient efforts 
to economize on reserves or plan how they would respond to shocks that would make 
reserves temporarily scarce. Second, however, keeping a too-high supply of reserves 
will weaken money market participants’ incentives to reform business models to align 
with liquidity regulations and, due to market segmentation, will reduce incentives for 
competition. Third, from the perspective of the central bank, there are operational 
and communication efficiencies associated with not having to engage in active 
management of the level of reserves. In the current regime, increases in reserves do 
not have to be managed. Operational efficiency will need to assess whether reserve-
adding temporary open market operations should be used to enhance rate control in 
the face of potentially large transitory decreases in reserves, such as those we 
observed on the recent year-end. 
January 29–30, 2019
29 of 255
 
 
 
 
These considerations suggest providing a buffer of reserves above financial 
institutions’ minimum comfort level. The appropriate size of this buffer will depend 
on the variability and predictability of autonomous factors affecting reserves, on how 
efficient temporary open market operations are in enhancing rate control, and on your 
view of the efficiency costs and benefits of operating with a smaller balance sheet on 
average versus conducting open market operations more frequently. We expect to 
learn more about these dynamics as we go forward, but I want to stress that this 
learning and adaptation will be ongoing well after balance sheet runoff has ended. 
Financial institutions’ demand for reserves remains another topic about which we 
will continue to learn. In various memos, the staff has described how the Committee 
can use surveys, structured dialogs, money market activity, payments activity, and 
patterns of behavior in Federal Reserve accounts to assess the minimum comfortable 
level of reserves. It is important to stress that U.S. money markets are very dynamic, 
and this minimum comfortable level is likely to vary over time as market participants 
innovate more efficient ways of transacting with each other. In addition, 
improvements in regulation and business models have led to a situation in which 
minimum comfortable levels are likely to vary even without innovations—for 
example, because of temporary distributional frictions. This is another reason why, in 
the longer run, for operational efficiency you are likely to need some buffer over a 
static minimum comfortable level. It also means that it is quite possible that 
minimum comfortable levels could decline over time as business models adapt. 
As shown in panel 2, reserves have already declined $1.2 trillion from their peak 
and, on the current trajectory of asset redemptions and growth in other liabilities, are 
likely to decline a further $300 to $400 billion by the end of the summer. Because of 
seasonal variability in autonomous factors, this decline will not be smooth, with much 
of the decline starting in the spring. The staff’s current estimate of the minimum 
comfortable level of reserves needed by the system is about $800 billion. As 
indicated in a memo for the November meeting, one very rough estimate of the buffer 
is $200 billion. This reflects just one potential buffer level that could balance the 
tradeoffs of balance sheet size and efficiency. 
As the staff has emphasized, these are estimates and we continue to assess 
different approaches to the buffer. As we learn more about the tradeoffs of different 
buffers and relevant developments in business models and money markets, we will 
report to you. In view of the uncertainty associated with these estimates, at some 
point it may be prudent to slow the decline in reserves to give the Committee more 
time for learning about the appropriate level of reserves without creating unintended 
periods of reserve scarcity that could result in market volatility, and also to allow 
financial market participants time to adjust their business models. A simple way to 
slow reserve decline without sending any signal about the stance of policy is to use 
growth in currency and other nonreserve liabilities to reduce the supply of reserves, 
similar to the period between October 2014 and September 2017 when the par value 
of the SOMA was held roughly constant, as shown in panel 2. 
January 29–30, 2019
30 of 255
 
 
 
 
A memo sent to the Committee over the intermeeting period examined three 
possible dates at which to start slowing the pace of reserve decline. All of these dates 
are likely to imply reserve levels above $1 trillion, as shown in panel 3. The staff’s 
current assessment is that slowing reserve decline by October 2019 would enhance 
your ability to learn about the appropriate level of reserves and allow time for any 
necessary adaptation in the operating regime. Trevor will discuss some other 
considerations related to communications. 
The slowing of reserve decline will require a change in the current reinvestment 
policy to hold the par value of the SOMA roughly constant. In the case of Treasury 
securities, the staff would propose rolling over all maturing Treasuries at auction. 
This approach is fully anticipated by markets. In the case of MBS, the issues 
involved are more subtle. As the Committee intends to return to a portfolio primarily 
comprising Treasury securities, the market is expecting agency MBS paydowns to be 
reinvested into the secondary Treasury securities market. However, there has been no 
direct communication by the Committee about how a reallocation strategy might be 
implemented. In particular, the public does not know whether the Committee would 
maintain its approach of reinvesting paydowns above $20 billion into agency MBS 
and, for the portion below $20 billion, what sector of the Treasury securities market 
the Committee would direct the Desk to purchase in. The public is not expecting that 
the Committee will announce in the near term more precise details on the longer-run 
desired duration of its Treasury securities portfolio. And it seems important to avoid 
giving potentially misleading signals through any decisions related to the 
reinvestment of MBS paydowns. Thus, we recommend that any near-term 
communications about agency MBS paydown reinvestments maintain flexibility for 
the future decision on long-run composition. The staff intends to provide more 
briefings on the long-run portfolio composition at upcoming FOMC meetings. In 
addition, the staff will soon present to the Committee options for how it might direct 
agency MBS paydowns into the secondary Treasury market. Some of these options 
would allow the Committee to learn more about how to operate most efficiently to 
reach its eventual desired composition. 
A harder, but perhaps less consequential, issue is whether to maintain the cap on 
runoffs in the MBS portfolio. Under current interest rate projections, the cap is out of 
the money. But, this summer, there is a reasonable probability that paydowns will 
come in slightly above the cap. Recall that the cap was designed to reassure 
mortgage investors that flows from paydowns to the SOMA portfolio needing 
funding in the private market would be gradual and predictable. There was a very 
small market reaction to the discussion of MBS sales in the December minutes, 
indicating some sensitivity to news about the likely path of the SOMA MBS 
portfolio. That said, relative to some earlier estimates of the likely effect of the 
agency MBS runoff on spreads, most market participants currently seem to expect a 
more muted effect. I would note that, as shown in panel 4, after this summer, the 
probability of paydowns exceeding the cap is low unless interest rates decline 
substantially. 
January 29–30, 2019
31 of 255
 
 
 
 
To conclude: The current system has served, and will serve, the Committee well. 
We will learn more about money market dynamics over the next few years, allowing 
the Committee to adapt the system to ensure it remains efficient and effective with the 
smallest asset holdings. 
MR. REEVE. Over the past five years or so, the Committee has had extensive 
discussions about policy implementation and normalization. Out of these discussions 
have come many important decisions and communications. As noted at the top panel 
of your next exhibit, in 2014, you released your Policy Normalization Principles and 
Plans, which specified that the first steps of the normalization process would involve 
raising the target range for the federal funds rate, with the gradual reduction in the 
balance sheet to come later. In 2015, as the timing of liftoff came into view, you 
released specific details for how you would raise the target range for the federal funds 
rate for the first time in an environment of superabundant reserves. And in 2017, you 
provided additional information on your approach for reducing your securities 
holdings. These policies and communications have been successful, as the process 
for both raising interest rates and reducing the balance sheet has gone very well, 
effectively promoting your maximum employment and price stability objectives. 
For more than a year, your balance sheet reduction program had indeed been as 
interesting for the public as “watching paint dry.” But as the process has continued, 
and, as Lorie noted, market participants have become increasingly attuned to the 
future path of the balance sheet. A key concern among many market participants is 
how far you will allow the balance sheet to shrink, which, of course, depends 
importantly on your choice of how to implement policy over the longer run. 
Accordingly, you may judge that now is a good time to provide greater clarity about 
your preferred approach for implementing policy and to set the stage for future 
communications that would explain the plan for transitioning the balance sheet to the 
longer-run operating regime. 
Based on your previous discussions, there appears to be a general consensus for 
continuing to operate in a regime like the current one, in which control over the 
federal funds rate and other short-term interest rates, is exercised primarily through 
the setting of the Federal Reserve’s administered rates and in which the quantity of 
reserves is sufficient to ensure that active management of the supply of reserves is not 
required. If this is the case, then it would seem advisable to announce a decision on 
the operating regime sooner rather than later so as to reduce unnecessary uncertainty. 
As noted in the middle panel of your exhibit, the first bullet of the “Statement 
Regarding Monetary Policy Implementation” would make it clear that you intend to 
continue to implement policy with the current framework. 
The second bullet of the statement reaffirms and modifies some important 
principles from previous communications. The first sentence, which is taken directly 
from the 2017 addendum, reiterates the primacy of interest rate policy as the active 
tool of monetary policy. The second sentence, however, replaces the similarly placed 
sentence from the 2017 addendum, which stated that “the Committee would be 
prepared to resume reinvestments . . . if a material deterioration in the economic 
January 29–30, 2019
32 of 255
 
 
 
 
outlook were to warrant a sizable reduction in the Committee’s target for the federal 
funds rate.” This sentence has recently received some scrutiny, in that, viewed in 
isolation, it could be taken to say that the FOMC would never stop shrinking its 
balance sheet unless the federal funds rate had been cut significantly. The new 
sentence, which draws on the 2014 principles, states that “the Committee is prepared 
to adjust any of the details for completing balance sheet normalization in light of 
economic and financial developments.” This formulation is not intended to signal 
that the balance sheet is an active tool of monetary policy. Rather, it is meant to 
provide the Committee with the flexibility to alter the details of the normalization 
plans as needed during the transition to the longer-run operating regime and to avoid 
circumstances in which balance sheet policy and interest rate policy could be working 
at cross purposes. The last sentence of this bullet, which also appears in the 2017 
addendum, reaffirms that “the Committee would be prepared to use its full range of 
tools, including altering the size and composition of its balance sheet, if future 
economic conditions were to warrant a more accommodative monetary policy than 
can be achieved solely by reducing the federal funds rate.” 
While it is always difficult to gauge how statements like this will be received by 
the public, the substance of this communication seems unlikely to come as a surprise 
because the minutes of previous meetings going back to 2016 have already conveyed 
your general views on your implementation framework. The clarification provided 
by the second bullet also seems unlikely to elicit a notable market response, as it 
essentially confirms communications from policymakers over the intermeeting 
period. Indeed, as Lorie discussed, results of the Desk surveys suggest that 
respondents already expect some degree of flexibility in balance sheet policy. 
Having taken a decision with regard to the operating regime, the next question is 
how the Committee will transition to the longer-run size of the balance sheet and 
quantity of reserves. The draft communication titled “Revised Policy Normalization 
Principles and Plans,” summarized in the bottom panel of your exhibit, provides an 
early take on how you might choose to explain your approach at some point in the 
future. Announcing a date on when the balance sheet will stop shrinking should allay 
concerns that the Committee might allow the process of reserve decline to go too far 
or too fast, potentially resulting in heightened volatility or other market stresses. 
Regarding the choice of a date, a relatively early one, such as the end of June, 
could signal undue concerns about the implications of balance sheet reduction and 
would likely lengthen the time it would take to reach your desired longer-run level of 
reserves. Conversely, a later date, such as the end of December, could increase the 
risk that reserve scarcity is reached while the balance sheet is still contracting or 
could amplify year-end pressures in money markets. To balance these risks, you may 
judge the appropriate date to be the end of September, which would mark two years 
of balance sheet reduction. 
Another issue to settle, as Simon discussed, is whether to maintain the cap on 
MBS paydowns during the transition period. On the one hand, such a cap could 
provide some insurance to the mortgage market in the event that a significant drop in 
January 29–30, 2019
33 of 255
 
 
 
 
interest rates leads to a surge in prepayments. On the other hand, announcing the 
retention of the cap adds to the complexity of the revised principles and plans and 
signals a somewhat more active stance with regard to transacting in the MBS market. 
Moreover, the economic consequences of the cap are likely small, and, in the event 
that interest rates drop significantly, you may be reconsidering a broader set of 
policy issues. 
Announcing a set of revised principles and plans would likely go a long way in 
reducing uncertainty about the course of the balance sheet over the next few years. 
The current draft, however, leaves open some key policy decisions that you do not 
have to settle now. Importantly, the decision to stop shrinking your asset holdings 
does not fix the quantity of reserves. As currency and other nonreserve liabilities 
grow, reserve balances would gradually decline to whatever level you judge to be 
consistent with the efficient and effective implementation of monetary policy. 
Indeed, subject to remaining in the current operating regime, these draft principles 
and plans have no bearing on the longer-run quantity of reserves; they only pertain to 
the path you choose to get to the longer-run destination. And once that destination is 
reached, as the draft notes, the SOMA portfolio will hold no more securities than 
necessary for efficient and effective policy implementation, consistent with your 
earlier guidance. 
In a similar vein, the draft revised principles and plans do not specify how you 
will structure your asset holdings other than to note that after you stop shrinking the 
balance sheet, principal payments from MBS holdings will be reinvested in Treasury 
securities. This should not come as much of a surprise to the public given your 
previously stated intention to hold primarily Treasury securities in the longer run—an 
intention that is repeated in the revised principles and plans. 
The draft revised principles and plans maintain continuity with previous 
communications by repeating some points that remain relevant. In addition to the 
intention to hold primarily Treasury securities in the longer run and to hold no more 
securities than necessary for efficient and effective policy implementation, the draft 
repeats “the Committee’s view that limited sales of agency mortgage-backed 
securities might be warranted in the longer run to reduce or eliminate residual 
holdings.” 
On the basis of your discussion today, we plan to circulate for comment an 
updated draft of the Revised Policy Normalization Principles and Plans during the 
intermeeting period. The remainder of your handout contains the draft 
communications that you received yesterday, along with the questions for discussion. 
We would be happy to answer any questions. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Questions for Simon or Trevor. President 
Rosengren. 
January 29–30, 2019
34 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. ROSENGREN. So, looking at what we got over the weekend, it looked like there 
was a word search that deleted any form of the word “abundant.” It doesn’t appear in any of 
these documents that you just discussed. It wasn’t in the paragraph that we had. And I think it 
relates a little bit to the conversation we just finished, which is, when we’re trying to do 
something that we haven’t done before, communication becomes really important. So if I were 
to say the words “quantitative tightening continued to September,” or instead I say, “going 
forward, supply abundant reserves,” those two things may be synonymous, but they may not be 
viewed the same by people who are listening. And so I’m just wondering why we’re choosing 
not to use the word “abundant,—which I think actually had some fairly consistent meaning 
around the table before. 
When I read that first bullet in the statement regarding monetary policy implementation, I 
interpreted the reference to implementing policy in a manner that active management of the 
supply of reserves is not required as synonymous with the word “abundant.” But the absence of 
the word “abundant” means that it’s open to interpretation, so that the current framework could 
be interpreted differently. And the problem with the word “abundant,” I think, is a political 
problem—that some view “abundant reserves” as politically explosive words. But I do think 
markets also listen to the word “abundant” as it’s commonly used. And so if we try to avoid 
using the word, we may not have the same reaction in the markets as we otherwise would have. 
I know that there are different constituencies that are listening to the same statement and 
interpreting it in very different ways, but I do think we have to think very carefully about 
whether we want to talk about a current framework that doesn’t talk about “abundant.” So what 
are your views on whether “abundant” is too explosive a word to use and whether synonyms for 
“abundant” might be clarifying, in terms of what “current framework” means? 
January 29–30, 2019
35 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. REEVE. Those are all great concerns. I’ll take a stab at addressing that and 
welcome other thoughts. One issue regarding the use of the word “abundant”: You noted the 
sensitivity that word may connote in certain circles in which preferences for a smaller balance 
sheet may still be quite firm, and that the word “abundant” would tend to convey some notion of 
profligacy or excess. And so that may be counterproductive to the overall message of the 
transition plan and long-run framework. 
But—going beyond that, to something perhaps a little more substantive—the word 
“abundant” is, in and of itself, fairly ambiguous and doesn’t really—when we talk about what an 
abundant reserves framework looks like, we end up defining what we mean by “abundant.” And 
those, in fact, are the words that are in the first bullet, in the sense that the definition of 
“abundant” is a regime in which you don’t need to actively manage the supply of reserves. So I 
was viewing the communication as more directly going to what you mean by “abundant” without 
getting into what “abundant” means or does not mean. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Vice Chairman Williams. 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. I actually had the same view that you have, Trevor, 
that we want to explain how we’re going to operate the system. But I think President Rosengren 
does bring up an important point. We do talk in jargon here quite a bit. We’ve talked about a 
floor system quite a bit in the past few years, and we have also stopped doing that. I think people 
actually thought they knew what was meant by “abundant reserves.” But I do think that the point 
is, after hearing that comment, “the quantity of reserves is sufficient to ensure”—you know, 
“sufficient to ensure” could be open to some interpretation. So maybe there’s a way—I won’t 
suggest “abundant,” but “sufficiently,” “plentiful,” or whatever, something—of getting that in 
January 29–30, 2019
36 of 255
 
 
 
 
there. Because I think “sufficient to ensure”—as someone who, from a mathematical point of 
view, is clear, but maybe it is not as clear as we could be. 
I do think, though, your point that we want to actually explain what it means—and what 
it means is, we’re going to use administered rates to set policy, just as we’ve been doing for the 
past decade. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Can I offer a thought, which is that I think there are diverse 
views on this around the table, and maybe we can actually take care of this as part of our go-
round? If people would agree to that, because pretty much everybody around the table will have 
a view here. So we’ll have a separate go-round on the word “abundant.” It’s a very good 
question. Is that acceptable? You can have a two-hander, President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Can I just ask a clarifying question? I think we’ve used “abundant” in 
the minutes. Am I right? 
MR. REEVE. The November minutes definitely used the word “abundant.” 
MS. MESTER. Okay. Thank you. 
MR. POTTER. December didn’t. 
MR. REEVE. December did not. 
MS. MESTER. Okay. But we have used this nomenclature before in our official 
communications. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Further clarifying questions, or are people dying to have this 
discussion separately, too? I mean, I’m flexible here. 
MR. EVANS. Could I just ask one question? 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Yes, Charlie. 
January 29–30, 2019
37 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. EVANS. President Mester touched on something that I noticed, too. It’s in the 
November minutes, but not December. Has this received any market commentary at all, the lack 
of appearance of “abundant” in December when it was highlighted early on in November?
 MR. POTTER. No. Just to be clear: If the Committee intends to continue to implement 
monetary policy, everyone is supposed to think, “They’ve been doing something for 10 years; 
they’re going to keep on doing that.” And, depending on how people then interpret the minutes, 
the press conference, and the next meeting, they’re going to understand pretty quickly what this 
means, subject to the learning that you will need to do about where you want that resting point to 
be and how you communicate and understand that as you go forward, because, as I said, shocks 
are going to keep on hitting. So I think the crucial thing here is that a decision has been made to 
continue in the regime you’ve been using for over 10 years. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. I have a clarifying question, which is: In this world, does 
“abundant” really just mean the size of the buffer? I mean, does it boil down to the difference 
between “abundant” and “scarce”? Can you just say that it’s the buffer if you’re thinking about a 
$200 billion buffer? Because, presumably, you’re scarce at that point, and you’re not scarce at 
$200 billion and above. Or is that too simplified? 
MR. POTTER. I want to be careful to— 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. What would be the “delta” in size between the two regimes? 
That’s really my question. 
MR. POTTER. That’s a decision that I think you will be making, and I would be very 
careful in using the $800 billion number as the one that sticks. In the memo that we sent to 
research directors, we stated that we heard that one big bank is reassessing that number, and that 
was up; I know another bank wants to reassess it down. What we will learn is how we can 
January 29–30, 2019
38 of 255
 
 
 
 
efficiently operate the system without superabundant reserves. And part of the point of my panel 
two was that we’re moving from supersuperabundant reserves to superabundant [laughter] to 
abundant. And I’m not quite sure how to capture that, because it’s definitely a better situation 
for money markets—if there are no other considerations—to have the smallest amount of 
reserves that allows you to operate the system. I think the system is more effective than the other 
one, but there is no reason to have extra reserves in that system, once you’ve made it as effective 
as it can be. 
MR. REEVE. If I could just add one point on that question. I think it probably is a bit of 
an oversimplification to think that “abundant” is really just about the estimate of this buffer, 
because financial institutions’ demand for reserves is going to depend on the rate environment in 
which they are operating. And so, in a different rate environment, they might have a different 
demand for reserves—they likely would have a different demand for reserves—which would 
then sort of shrink that first piece of reserve demand that we’re talking about. But, you know, 
that’s just an added margin of adjustment in the system that we don’t really understand all that 
well. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Okay. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to stick with this question: I think that 
the relevant comparison and the reason this is so hard to communicate is that the pre-crisis 
regime had only $30 or $40 billion in reserves in the system. We’re talking about increasing that 
by a factor of 30 or 35. And so this leaves a wide-open issue about why you need so many 
reserves, and so I think that’s the difficulty. For most older Wall Street hands, that’s what 
they’re thinking of. If you say “minimal” or “lowest level possible” or “a little bit bigger than 
lowest level possible,” it’s an order-of-magnitude issue, and it seems to me one thing that’s not 
January 29–30, 2019
39 of 255
 
 
 
 
in this discussion is that the reserves are being used to meet the liquidity coverage ratio. And so 
this is a very different situation from what it was pre-crisis, which does not have much to do with 
these buffers on other dimensions. So I just thought I’d make that comment. 
I do have one clarifying question, if I could ask it, Mr. Chairman. I’m looking at exhibit 
2 here. It says, “Key policy issues remaining: Longer-run composition of asset holdings.” Then 
it says in the next bullet point, “Continuity with previous communications: Intention to hold 
primarily Treasury securities in the longer run.” So it would seem like our previous 
communication has already suggested that there’s consensus on the Committee, and are we 
saying that that’s an open question or not an open question? 
MR. REEVE. No. 
MR. BULLARD. Or what is the point there? 
MR. REEVE. There are many other dimensions of the longer-run composition of the 
asset holdings that you have not specified. So, it’s absolutely true that the intention to hold 
primarily Treasury securities in the longer run is still there, and that leaves open many decisions 
about, say, the maturity composition of those Treasury security holdings and the amount of 
duration on the portfolio. And there are also decisions regarding, as also noted, limited sales of 
MBS, future decisions you may wish to consider in reducing the size of the MBS portfolio, or 
making a decision to just let it passively roll off. 
MR. BULLARD. If you’re going to hold primarily Treasury securities in the longer run, 
presumably the MBS holdings would drift away in the longer run. 
MR. REEVE. It would take a very long time. 
January 29–30, 2019
40 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. POTTER. It would take a long time, and the issues about how quickly you want to 
get to that long-run distribution of Treasury securities that we are hoping to present to you—you 
can get there in 20 years, or you can get there in 5 years. There are different choices. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. 
I would encourage everyone to offer your thoughts on “abundant” as we go around the 
table. I’m going to actually begin this round with my own comments, and I want to start by 
thanking the staff for a very helpful analysis of our options. I’m looking forward to everyone’s 
comments, but I’m also going to lay out my own thinking here. This has been an unusually 
challenging intermeeting period, as we lost a couple of weeks to holiday vacations and that we 
nonetheless needed to make some consequential changes, both in the stance of policy, and in the 
normalization plan. I want to thank everyone for your patience and your persistence as we work 
through this together, and I thank each of you also for your thoughtful input on these tricky 
issues. 
As I will describe, I think we’ve actually come to a very good place regarding balance 
sheet normalization. My own thinking on balance sheet normalization has evolved since the 
December meeting, as I suppose is obvious. From our decision in December 2013 to taper asset 
purchases and wind down QE3 and through most of last year—a period of almost five years—
the markets exhibited little sensitivity to news about our balance sheet. In my thinking, that 
meant that we could take our time and proceed gradually and predictably in moving toward the 
end stage of the normalization process. Of course, markets weren’t going to ignore QT forever, 
and we could only hope that the shift in market focus would be a smooth one. 
January 29–30, 2019
41 of 255
 
 
 
 
In the event, that shift came suddenly toward the end of last year, and not smoothly at all. 
At least some portion of market participants became very focused on aspects of normalization 
that, in our typical standard reasoning, should not have been all that consequential, since they 
were telegraphed and should have been priced in. And the unpleasant feeling of a sharp, 
unexpected tightening of financial conditions, along with serious questions about whether the 
market was behaving rationally, gave rise, at least in my case, to painful flashbacks of the taper 
tantrum. But questions about the market’s mental state are not going to be settled any time soon 
and, in a sense, are beside the point. 
What this means for us, I think, is clear. We should continue to make our decisions in a 
thoughtful and careful manner, and to explain them as best we can. At the same time, we must 
be realistic about the fact that we are, at least for now, operating in an environment of heightened 
sensitivity to news about the balance sheet. And I think it behooves us to settle issues that we’re 
in a position to settle, and also to display a thoughtful openness to concerns that people are 
raising. Exactly what this means, of course, is something we are probably going to be 
discussing. In the meantime, I feel very good about where our discussions on the long-run 
operating framework have gotten to. We’ve had a robust discussion of our framework over the 
past couple of meetings. I believe there’s strong support for remaining in our current framework. 
We’ve “socialized” that idea in the minutes, and we’ve all had a chance to go home and live with 
the arguments. 
To summarize briefly, the regime provides good control of short-term money market 
rates in a variety of market conditions and effective transmission of those rates to broader 
financial conditions. The main alternative, our return to a corridor system, seems more 
problematic. Reserve demand is much larger and more variable than in the past, and it seems 
January 29–30, 2019
42 of 255
 
 
 
 
likely that a corridor system would involve the Fed playing a very active role in markets, 
intervening in size and with great regularity. We could probably make that work from the 
perspective of execution, but our current framework seems much preferable. I had previously 
been an advocate of leaving this decision open for a while longer, letting the paint dry a little bit 
more, as we learned more about the minimum level of reserves our current system might require. 
With the markets’ renewed focus on QT, you might think of this as the end of the 
honeymoon, and I now see the benefits of waiting as lower—probably close to zero—and the 
benefits of confirming our choice now as substantial. I encourage all to weigh in on these issues, 
including both the choice to remain in our framework, and the merits of announcing that decision 
tomorrow. One benefit of settling the long-run operating framework question, is that it would 
clear the path to provide clarity in coming meetings on a number of further issues. 
In particular, we’ve all read the briefing material with estimates that reserves will be 
somewhere in the neighborhood of $1.3 trillion in June, falling to $1.1 trillion in September. 
There is some uncertainty associated with those numbers, but I think it’s clear that, presuming 
we remain in our current operating system, the final stages of balance sheet shrinkage are on the 
horizon. Thus, it’s time we begin settling some of these issues about how we’ll manage the end 
of that process. The goals are clear: We want to reach the smallest balance sheet consistent with 
the effective and efficient implementation of monetary policy, and we want to do that in a way 
that minimizes risks to achieving our dual-mandate objectives and avoids needless disruption in 
financial markets. I’m hoping that you’ll express your views on these transitional issues that 
were nicely summarized in the staff memo. 
In these final stages of our balance sheet normalization process, it makes a ton of sense to 
me to proceed more gradually as we probe for the right level of reserves. Thus, I see a lot of 
January 29–30, 2019
43 of 255
 
 
 
 
appeal in what we’ve been fondly calling the “Harker plan” and what President Harker is 
referring to as the “Armenter plan,” which involves ending balance sheet runoff at a specific date 
later this year and allowing reserves to decline more gradually for a time thereafter, as we feel 
our way to the minimum efficient level of reserves. I hope we can have a thorough discussion of 
this idea today, and I think the memo summarized the arguments for various dates pretty well. 
September seems to me like a reasonable choice. I hope folks will weigh in on that. 
I don’t sense urgency in announcing a date for ending balance sheet runoff or in settling 
balance sheet composition issues. The markets don’t seem to be expecting a big reveal on these 
issues tomorrow. More important, when we have made changes in our balance sheet 
normalization plans in the past, we’ve done so after much deliberation and thought around this 
table. This careful process has served us well in the past, and I’m very pleased that we’re 
sticking with it. Finally, there are some other issues, such as what to do with the redemption 
caps on the MBS. I guess my baseline instinct is to do away with them and reinvest in Treasury 
securities. You should feel free to take this opportunity to comment on those features and others 
as you see fit. Ideally, we’ll be able to arrive at a consensus on whether or not to proceed with 
some version of the Harker–Armenter plan as soon as the March meeting. 
Finally, in the spirit of communicating that we’re sensitive to the arguments being made 
about quantitative tightening, and with reference to our earlier discussion, I think it’s important 
that we make clear as a Committee that we view the normalization plans as subsidiary to our 
overall pursuit of the dual mandate. That is, if we find that any aspect of the approach we’ve 
chosen to implement normalization puts our dual-mandate goals at risk, we will alter the plans as 
appropriate. I am strongly of the view that normalization is not a primary contributor to 
January 29–30, 2019
44 of 255
 
 
 
 
turbulence in markets, a view I suspect is widely shared. And, for now, the hue and cry for 
slowing the pace of normalization seems to have died down somewhat. 
I think the prudent course, however, is to expect those arguments to emerge again, 
perhaps in force, and to think about how we would handle that if that happens. I think we should 
remember that in our standard reasoning, the pace of normalization doesn’t matter much within a 
wide range, implying that slowing down a little bit in the name of respecting an alternative 
position, would not be of great consequence. I hope it doesn’t come to this, but if it does, this is 
something we may have to consider. 
On “abundant,” I don’t have a strong prior on whether we need to change “abundant” or 
whether “abundant” is a strongly problematic word. If there’s an alternative that’s less 
problematic, like “plentiful,” I could be open to that. So I’ll be interested to hear other voices 
around the table on that. Let me stop there and open the floor for your comments, beginning 
with Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support a decision to continue to operate 
in our existing framework in which reserves are ample and sufficient [laughter], so that 
adjustment in our administered rates is the primary tool for implementing monetary policy. I 
also urge that, if we reach agreement on our framework today, we communicate this decision to 
the public in the statement regarding monetary policy implementation that was discussed a 
moment ago. With regard to the transition process by which reserves are reduced to the level 
consistent with this operating framework, my views since December, have evolved. At our 
previous meeting, I indicated a preference to operate with the smallest balance sheet possible that 
is consistent with this framework, and some willingness to tolerate uncertainty and volatility as 
we learned over time, as the balance sheet shrank, what that level would be. 
January 29–30, 2019
45 of 255
 
 
 
 
Surveys of market participants indicate that the level of reserves consistent with our 
existing framework could be in the neighborhood of $1 trillion. If we allow for a buffer of 
reserves, as has been discussed, so as to minimize the volatility in front-end rates, that would put 
estimates of the expected minimum level of reserves consistent with this framework at $1 trillion 
or somewhat above. On the current trajectory for our balance sheet rolloff and growth in our 
nonreserve liabilities, we could reach this level of reserves as soon as the fourth quarter of this 
year or, if not, sometime in 2020. 
The question before us, then, is, do we let this process play out passively along the 
current trajectory, which would have the benefit of letting us find out eventually what the 
absolute minimum size of our balance sheet is, consistent with this framework, or do we, as 
President Harker suggested in December, reach agreement before that point on when to stop our 
balance sheet runoff and to reach the final destination for reserve levels solely via growth in 
nonreserve liabilities? I have concluded that we should be willing to make this decision sooner 
rather than later and thus support our trying to reach agreement soon on a Harker plan to 
conclude our balance sheet rundown later this year, and once agreement is reached, to 
communicate this decision promptly to the public. 
I believe that by eliminating the remaining uncertainty about our destination and pace 
regarding balance sheet normalization, we do address one concern, which is that uncertainty 
about our plans, not the plans themselves, contributes to somewhat tighter financial conditions. 
So, as an aside, we step away from certainty equivalence and realize that right now there’s a 
huge range of speculation about what this destination can be. And if we reach agreement and 
eliminate uncertainty, that in itself, I think, could be a positive development, so long as we have 
agreement. The cost of this approach is, of course, that we may, for a time, operate with a 
January 29–30, 2019
46 of 255
 
 
 
 
somewhat larger balance sheet than we would if we were to allow the process to proceed 
passively—until, of course, a spike in funding rates signals that we are at or close to the kink in 
reserve demand. But under the staff’s estimates, and according to the dealer surveys, the 
expected difference in balance sheet destination between the passive and the Harker approach is 
likely to be rather modest, in practice. 
Moreover, regardless of what we decide, if we maintain the existing operating framework 
as just described, we are likely, sometime in 2020, to have to begin to allow our balance sheet to 
be growing again under either option. That would mean that if we end the balance sheet runoff 
sometime later this year, then that level will turn out reasonably soon to be a minimum consistent 
with our current framework. So, on balance, I think that the benefits to the public of eliminating 
uncertainty about our balance sheet destination is greater than any cost of forgoing a modest 
further reduction in the balance sheet that could prove to be ephemeral. 
Finally, I support the language in the proposed statement regarding monetary policy 
implementation that makes clear that we are prepared to adjust any of the details for completing 
balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments. This language, of 
course, would revise the Committee’s 2017 language, which has been and is, subject to 
misinterpretation by even savvy Fed observers. The new language says simply that we’re 
prepared to adjust the details on balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial 
developments. What we are discussing in the context of our revised policy normalization 
principles and plans is certainly, I think, reasonable and should not be seen as inconsistent with 
our overarching principles in support of our dual-mandate objectives. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
January 29–30, 2019
47 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank everyone, once again, for all 
of the work on the long-run framework. So the deal is, if it works, it’s the Armenter plan. If it 
doesn’t work, it’s my plan. [Laughter] And, in fact, to minimize risk, we’ll just go off the 
Philadelphia plan and be done with it. 
I believe that the proposed plan actually will serve us very well. It enables us to 
communicate clearly and precisely our policies for asset redemptions, keeping up with our stated 
objective of being gradual and predictable. At the same time, we are reducing the risk of interest 
rate volatility by taking a prudent approach in our quest to find the long-run level of reserves. I 
am on board with our planned strategy to continue reducing MBS holdings by reinvesting 
exclusively in Treasury securities. I’m also comfortable, actually, with maintaining the cap on 
MBS as normalization proceeds, because I think that the probability of the cap binding, as we 
saw in a previous analysis, is low, and minimizing the number of changes we make all at once 
has value in and of itself. Perhaps at some later date, once we are comfortable with our ability to 
control the federal funds rate in an environment of lower excess reserve balances, we can and, I 
think, should revisit the topic of whether it is appropriate to accelerate the selloff of our MBS 
holdings. But I think we can push that off. I don’t think we need to make that decision right 
now. 
Staging the two issues sequentially will allow us to assess the effects of a smaller balance 
sheet, without the complication of rapid changes to the composition. I’m also in favor of basing 
the start of redemptions on a calendar date. The explicit calendar date has two distinct 
advantages over a stopping point for the level of reserves. First, in our balance sheet, the level of 
reserves is inherently volatile, as unexpected movements in the U.S. Treasury’s account at the 
Federal Reserve are both large and fairly common. This volatility makes targeting the liability 
January 29–30, 2019
48 of 255
 
 
 
 
side of the balance sheet fairly complicated. For example, reserves could drop unexpectedly and 
reach our target level, leading us to stop redemptions, only to find that the level of reserves 
recovers soon thereafter. And we’ve seen those swings of $100 billion as a sort of regular 
feature of what we do. Using a stopping date allows us to target an expected level of reserves in 
a way that is easy to communicate to the public. In that regard, I actually prefer September, as 
reserves at that date should likely still be greater than their lowest value compatible with interest 
rate control. Reserves would also be closer to what I believe is their eventual level than would 
occur if we stopped in June. 
The second reason is that traders in financial markets appear concerned, as we have been 
talking about, with the eventual size and composition of our asset holdings. With interest rates 
falling as the balance sheet contracts—and as to what we are talking about, I’m not quite sure 
why that’s a concern, and we have lots of hypotheses, but it appears to be a fact of life that we 
have to accept. Setting a calendar date will remove the uncertainty about the path of asset 
redemptions, allowing markets to infer exactly what size the balance sheet will attain. 
Now, there are some risks with the plan. Reserves could fall substantially below 
$1.3 trillion before September, and to maintain interest rate control, we could be forced to raise 
the level of reserves and assets through open market operations. Or, if for some unexpected 
reason the demand for reserves slopes upward at a higher level of reserves than expected, we 
then could find ourselves in the uncomfortable position of announcing a change of plans. That 
possibility is deemed to be unlikely, but it may be worthwhile emphasizing in our 
communications that our primary concern is interest rate control. And the balance sheet, while 
important, is not our overriding concern. If everything goes smoothly, we should begin letting 
January 29–30, 2019
49 of 255
 
 
 
 
currency growth further shrink the level of reserves, as we search for that minimal level that 
allows for the effective conduct of monetary policy. 
Along those lines, it would be worthwhile exploring the creation of other reserve-creation 
facilities that could aid the Desk operations. Also, it is very likely that the first question out of 
someone’s mouth is, “Why September?” I think the economics of the situation govern how best 
to keep the balance sheet reduction gradual and predictable, while maintaining interest rate 
control, and that will need to be communicated. Similarly, it is what the level of reserves are in 
relation to where the upward sloping part of the reserve demand begins, that will determine how 
effective we are at achieving both goals. The communications strategy outlined in the memo, 
while still subjecting the Committee to some uncertainty, seems to me to be the best way of 
achieving both goals, with the primacy given to interest rate control. I also think it would be a 
good idea to craft these explanations well in advance—that is, having some talking points well in 
advance, for the Committee to use. Thus, a March release of the information seems to be the 
most prudent course of action, as it gives us some time to craft these explanations, and also gives 
the market six months to prepare for the execution of this plan. 
And last, on the question of “abundant,” we had an abundantly rich conversation about 
“abundant.” But I’m not a big fan of the word “abundant.” If we are to make any change to the 
statement regarding monetary policy implementations, instead of saying “sufficient,” we could 
say “more than sufficient.” That would signal the same thing. But I actually like the word 
“sufficient,” because I think it balances—as President Rosengren talked about—what we’ve said 
previously, but also some of the political realities of the negative connotations associated with 
the word “abundant.” Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
January 29–30, 2019
50 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. In terms of the questions asked, my view is 
that it makes sense to have a statement clarifying that we will continue to implement an 
abundance-of-reserves regime. I interpret the first bullet as being consistent with that view, but 
the absence of the use of the word “abundant” could leave it open to interpretation. So 
“sufficient,” “plentiful,” “ample,” and “abundant” have very potentially different connotations. 
When I first read that bullet, because of the active management of the supply of reserves, I didn’t 
even notice that “abundant” was no longer in that paragraph, because that to me was 
synonymous with “abundant.” That’s the only way that you could operate without active 
management of the supply of reserves. But I do think that it will be interpreted differently how 
we actually phrase this, and I don’t view “sufficient” as close to being synonymous with 
“plentiful,” “ample,” or “abundant.” And so I’m worried that if we allow “sufficient” to stay 
there, we run the risk that people will misinterpret what we’re actually saying. 
And I would personally prefer to use the word “abundant,” because it is consistent with 
what we used in the minutes before, but if a synonym is preferred, I think that’s fine. But I do 
worry that we don’t want to—the whole purpose of having this bullet is so that people 
understand what the regime is that we’re operating in. Leaving it technical, in terms of active 
management of the supply of reserves, I think is going to be somewhat misleading. And 
different people are going to interpret it differently, and we don’t want to come out of this 
meeting with a lot of people interpreting us doing different things. So whether it’s “plentiful,” 
“ample,” or “abundant,” I don’t really care which of those three words we use, but I actually am 
a little concerned that “sufficient” doesn’t have the same connotation. 
In terms of the other two questions, I am comfortable stopping the decline in aggregate 
security holdings in September. In terms of the cap, I would prefer removing the cap rather than 
January 29–30, 2019
51 of 255
 
 
 
 
planning on selling MBS in the future. In terms of the statement, maintaining a sufficiently 
abundant average level of reserves so that frequent open market operations are not expected to be 
necessary, is appropriate to disclose in the statement. Pushing reserve levels close to the steep 
part of the demand curve could increase interest rate volatility with little apparent offsetting 
benefit. In fact, I would be comfortable growing the balance sheet with the expansion of 
securities, tracking increases in nonreserve liabilities starting in September. 
I do think that the announcement poses some communications challenges. I am 
concerned that some market participants view recent volatility in financial markets as being 
associated with our balance sheet policies. I find these arguments implausible, for some of the 
reasons that we were discussing earlier: the shrinkage relative to the stock of assets is quite 
small, and the program was announced much earlier and with surprisingly little reaction. 
Furthermore, the supposed correlation with the balance sheet actions comes at a time of 
significant declines in interest rates. If our balance sheet decline was too restrictive, we would 
be worried about interest rates moving up, not down. I am concerned that if we do not “push 
back” on these narratives in the Chair’s press conference and in our future speeches, the 
opposition to any future balance sheet action will grow. We cannot afford that, because in the 
next recession we are very likely to need to engage in asset purchases again. 
My final comment is that my preference would be to quickly build up our Treasury bill 
holdings and to let the Treasury know of our plans. Lengthening duration is a critical option for 
using our balance sheet to stimulate the economy, so we should quickly move to add more short-
duration securities to our balance sheet in order that we have that option. This will, of course, 
make it possible to swap short-term securities for long-term securities in the next economic 
downturn. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
January 29–30, 2019
52 of 255
 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have remarks that are evolving as we’re 
talking here. I think, first of all, the Committee is talking about an operating system, but the 
market is talking about monetary policy. So I think that’s a fundamental conflict here, and it 
runs through the discussion. Also, as a general comment, I would say this may be a case in 
which we’ve had a difficult intermeeting period, and less might be more at this particular 
juncture. 
Let me start with the statement regarding monetary policy implementation. Let me begin 
with comments on the wisdom of making any statement on the balance sheet without providing 
supporting details. One read of this would be that there is no new information really being put 
out here, as seemed to come through in Trevor Reeve’s comments. These are things that have 
been said in the past by the Committee, and so we’re not really communicating anything. I think 
what will happen is, people will say, “Why are you putting out a statement that doesn’t really 
have that much content?” That will trigger a barrage of questions concerning details that aren’t 
specified in this document. So I don’t know if we really need to go in that direction or want to 
go in that direction. Sometimes, that can spiral out of control. 
It may be better to simply state that we are continuing to work on these issues, but that 
there are a lot of technical details that remain to be worked out. We’re very likely to be ready by 
March with a comprehensive plan. We can float ideas over the intermeeting period—and that is 
essentially what was going to happen in the March meeting anyway—and see if we get a bad 
reaction to any of those. If we don’t, then we can go ahead with the comprehensive plan in 
March. And we would certainly communicate, as we have already, that the amount of reserves 
in the system is going to be much larger than it was pre-crisis, once the normalization process is 
January 29–30, 2019
53 of 255
 
 
 
 
complete. I think that might set up a good intermeeting communication, and then we can come 
at the March meeting with a more detailed plan. 
If we don’t go that route, and we go ahead and release this as some comments on the 
organization of bullet points here in this statement regarding monetary policy implementation, I 
suggest putting three bullet points under the preamble, instead of two as we have it right now. 
The first bullet point would be the first sentence of what is currently the second bullet point. So 
it’s “The Committee continues to view changes in the target range for the federal funds rate as its 
primary means of adjusting the stance of monetary policy.” That would become the first bullet 
point, all by itself, and I think it’s always good to have a one-sentence bullet point, and it puts it 
out there that, look, we’re thinking interest rates here, not balance sheet, as far as the tools of 
monetary policy. Then we would come with the existing first bullet point, which should become 
the second one now, and then the third bullet point wouldn’t have the first sentence anymore. 
You’d cross out the “however,” and you would talk about being prepared to test the details for 
completing balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial circumstances. 
A question I would have for the Committee and for the Chair here is, are we deciding 
against the overnight bank funding rate as the official policy rate? We’re mentioning the federal 
funds rate here. I thought there was some consensus around the table that we were eventually 
going to switch to something else—I guess are we leaving that for another day, which is okay, 
but it does mention the federal funds here. 
Now, I have comments on the last bullet point in this statement. This bullet point brings 
up issues about the general stance of monetary policy in a statement that is ostensibly about 
monetary policy implementation. For that reason, I think it’s somewhat out of place in this 
particular communication. The wording “the Committee is prepared to adjust any of the details 
January 29–30, 2019
54 of 255
 
 
 
 
for completing balance sheet normalization in light of economic and financial developments” 
seems to set a low bar for turning to the balance sheet tool for monetary policy purposes. 
Previously, we have set a very high bar for that, and I think the Committee’s sentiment, at least 
in my own judgment, is that there is a high bar. We do think we would go to balance sheet 
policy, I guess, if we got back to the zero bound, although we do have forward guidance, and we 
could use forward guidance instead, in lieu of balance sheet policy. But I’m loath to get back 
into the game of having possibly two pieces of policy to be adjusting. It was very difficult for 
the Committee when we were doing that. And that’s why we got to the situation today in which 
we want to emphasize interest rate policy. And I’m going to give an argument at the end about 
why we may only have to use interest rate policy anyway. 
The very last sentence seems to suggest that the Committee may return to quantitative 
easing if conditions warrant, but the large balance sheet decision that we’re essentially making 
here for policy implementation would seem to restrict the use of QE in the future, as there would 
not be sufficient policy space to go to QE on the same scale that we did in the post-crisis era. It’s 
not clear that we really want to put this expectation in play. You could get into another 
recession. You go to zero. Are you really willing to go to $5 trillion or $6 trillion on the balance 
sheet? Is that really what we’re talking about, or not? I don’t think the Committee has really 
addressed that question, but if you’re going to run with a very large balance sheet in normal 
times, and you’re saying QE is still on the table, it seems to me we haven’t created the policy 
space that was part of the goal of the normalization policy on the balance sheet. Overall, the 
statement may work out okay but could raise questions that would be better answered with a 
more detailed statement coming in March. It might be better to wait for that. We could simply 
January 29–30, 2019
55 of 255
 
 
 
 
say we’re working on this and talk about some of the features of the likely statement in March 
during the intermeeting period and see if we get a good response to those features. 
Let me turn to the revised policy normalization principles and plans. I begin with 
comments on calendar-based policy. I’ve long been an opponent of calendar-based policy 
around this table. It’s, generally speaking, poor monetary policy practice to name specific dates 
at which the specific changes in policy will occur. The issue, to me, is that the data sometimes 
do not cooperate in the dance just before the penciled-in action is about to take place, putting the 
Committee in an awkward position. One live example that’s occurring as we speak, or has 
occurred recently, is the European Central Bank ending their QE policy at the end of 2018. They 
had to do that even on the heels of poor data in Europe in the second half of 2018, because they 
had penciled it in, and they had to go ahead with it anyway, and then try to talk about the 
implications of that. I just think it puts the Committee in a bad position if events aren’t 
corroborating the situation. 
My preference would be that the Committee not proceed with date-certain statements 
unless absolutely necessary. Accordingly, I would simply use the phrase “later this year” or 
possibly the phrase “in the quarters ahead” and allow the Chair to cherry-pick a perfect moment 
that seems appropriate to make this move. I think this kind of optionality is the way the 
Committee should operate. I don’t think you’d have any trouble with response to that or with the 
way markets would take that. 
Concerning the MBS cap question, I don’t think it’s necessary to retain the cap. So I 
agree with the Chairman on this. I think it’s unnecessarily complicated. On the question of 
“abundant,” “plentiful,” and many other descriptions here, I had in my notes that we like the 
phrase “minimally abundant reserves.” [Laughter] We think it’s good practice to keep reserves 
January 29–30, 2019
56 of 255
 
 
 
 
minimally abundant. If nothing else, this creates maximum policy space for the Committee, 
should it wish to return to QE in the future. Another point on this is that to the extent banks can 
meet their liquidity coverage ratio requirements by holding reserves, we should push them gently 
toward holding a close market substitute like Treasury securities instead. And my last point is, 
we continue to think that the Federal Reserve should open a standing repo facility that would 
accept Treasury securities at a ceiling rate not too far above the target policy rate. This is a 
method often used by other central banks worldwide. Not operating in this manner risks keeping 
reserves far in excess of what is needed for this Committee. 
Overall, then, number one, I’m supportive of a floor system based on “Friedman (1969) 
rule”–type logic. Number two, reserves should, therefore, be abundant, but minimally so, on the 
grounds that the Committee should retain maximal policy space in the event of a possible return 
to QE in the future. Three, the Fed should open a repo facility to complement the existing RRP, 
thereby adopting a standard operating framework used by central banks worldwide. I also 
wouldn’t mind returning to the language of “floor.” I’m not quite sure why “floor” got rejected 
or whether it did, but a floor system, to me—for people that are in the know—would 
immediately say that you’re doing this because of Friedman rule considerations, and that means 
a lot of reserves. 
Finally, let me give an antidote to the market agitators on quantitative tightening. There 
is a very good argument, I think, that we can make—and that I have floated in the past at these 
meetings and elsewhere—about why what we’re doing is not quantitative tightening. Often 
you’ll hear in markets “Well, you did quantitative easing, and you said that that was easier 
monetary policy, why is the reverse not tighter monetary policy?” There’s a good answer to that. 
When the policy rate is pinned at zero, and we do quantitative easing, the leading theory is that 
January 29–30, 2019
57 of 255
 
 
 
 
that sends a signal that you’ll stay at the lower bound for a longer period of time. There are 
many other theories, but the leading theory is that it’s a signal to markets that when the policy 
rate is zero, we’ll stay at zero for longer, and that seems to have worked both in the United States 
and abroad. Once the policy rate comes off the lower bound, however, there’s no signaling 
about the future path of the policy rate, other than the signal that the Committee is sending 
anyway about the future path of the policy rate. And in that circumstance, you can shrink the 
balance sheet without signaling consequences, and therefore there is no quantitative tightening 
going on anymore. So I think that the gist of that argument could be used to rationalize the idea 
that the two tools are not moving in opposite directions, that the one tool becomes neutral once 
the policy rate comes off the lower bound and you return to ordinary monetary policy away from 
the zero bound. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. I want to express appreciation for all the work that has 
gone into the memo as well as the statements. I support affirming that the Committee has chosen 
to establish the current framework as the long-term operating framework. This framework—I’ll 
call it the “adequate reserves” framework, but I have no attachment to that term—prioritizes the 
funds rate as the primary active tool by ensuring there are adequate reserves to satisfy demand. 
I’m going to make four simple points, which will be familiar to you from previous things 
I have said. First, as I said in November and December, I support announcing in advance a 
stopping date for runoff at a point when we can be confident that there are adequate reserves to 
meet demand. This is the best approach to exercising effective interest rate control and 
providing clarity to the public about our plans. Put differently, I believe it is inadvisable to probe 
for the lowest level of reserves in a late-cycle environment when markets are fragile and prone to 
January 29–30, 2019
58 of 255
 
 
 
 
volatility, particularly associated with misinterpretation of balance sheet communications. The 
process of probing for the kink between the flat and steep parts of the demand curve is likely to 
be fraught. It will necessarily entail spikes in funds rate volatility. New tools would be needed 
to contain that volatility. As we have seen, markets can be quite volatile in the face of 
uncertainty or lack of clarity about our balance sheet policy, and I don’t believe the value to what 
is likely to be a very modest further decline in reserves is sufficient to merit taking that kind of 
risk, especially since we know reserve demand itself can vary quite a bit. 
Second, as I noted in December, I favor announcing in advance that we will end runoff 
when reserves reach $1.2 trillion, which corresponds to the September 2019 option in the staff’s 
very good memo. According to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s survey, it appears that 
reserves below $800 billion will put us in a regime of reserve scarcity. To avoid the risk of 
stumbling onto the steep part of the demand curve, which could lead to substantial volatility in a 
fragile environment, we should plan an adequate buffer above that level. Today, reserves are 
about $1.75 trillion, I believe. A stopping date of September 2019 corresponds to a reduction in 
reserves of almost 60 percent from the peak. This is a noteworthy achievement, and we should 
declare victory and move on. 
Driving reserves down further beyond that point—for instance, with a stopping date in 
December of this year or beyond—would provide, at best, marginal improvement in the optics 
while incurring substantial risks. In fact, after the stopping date, I would prefer to allow the 
balance sheet to expand at the trend rate of growth in nonreserve liabilities, like President 
Rosengren, rather than being held fixed in nominal terms. On balance, it isn’t clear that the 
advantages of achieving some very modest reduction in reserves for a limited time thereafter, in 
the tens of billions over the first half of 2020, is worth the complexity, at a very late stage in our 
January 29–30, 2019
59 of 255
 
 
 
 
cycle, of needing to explain again how we will decide when to stop the reserve runoff policy and 
allow the balance sheet to start growing. 
I’m not entirely convinced that that modest further reduction merits the cost, in terms of 
greater uncertainty and risks of volatility at what is likely to be an even more fragile time, unless 
things improve quite markedly between then and now. However, I recognize some members of 
the Committee put a very high priority on probing for the kink in the demand curve, and I’m 
willing to support the flat nominal balance sheet approach suggested by President Harker. In this 
case, I would propose emphasizing in our communications the notable slowdown in the pace of 
reserve runoff this will entail after the stopping point. 
Third, in our communications today and in the statement we’ll release in the future, I also 
strongly support making clear that the Committee stands ready to adjust balance sheet 
normalization, if necessary, to ensure it doesn’t work at cross-purposes with the federal funds 
rate in promoting our goals of maximum employment and price stability. It’s now clear that the 
language that was used to convey this point in our September 2017 statement was framed with 
too high a bar, when in fact the underlying intent was relatively simple. It’s hard to imagine that 
this or any future Committee would set its policy instruments at cross-purposes in pursuing the 
dual-mandate goals. 
Fourth and finally, although I strongly support moving to a Treasury securities-only 
portfolio, I would prefer to do so in the least disruptive way possible. This likely argues in favor 
of retaining the cap during the paydown period, but I am open to further analysis. 
Let me just summarize by saying that balance sheet communications, as we all know, can 
be quite tricky. So I would defer entirely to the Chair on the most effective sequencing and 
timing of how we get these messages out. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
January 29–30, 2019
60 of 255
 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, judging from the documents I saw, 
I thought we had reached a point at which we could have released the revised policy 
normalization principles and plans after today’s meeting. But I guess that’s not the case, and I 
am supportive of releasing as much information as we can today. However, I am having some 
difficulty seeing how the proposed brief statement for Wednesday will be received by the public. 
I agree with announcing that we are staying with our current implementation regime, and I 
interpret that to mean that our current regime is a floor system with abundant reserves—
“abundant,” “adequate,” “plentiful,” “wildly sufficient.” But I’m not so sure that the current 
wording will successfully convey the significance of the statement. It’s as if we are trying to 
avoid saying that this decision implies a larger balance sheet than we thought a couple of years 
ago. 
My reading of the weight of opinion on the Committee following both the November and 
December meetings was that we should continue to operate in a regime of abundant reserves. I 
can only guess that some participants have discomfort over publicly describing this using the 
term “abundant,” but the alternative language in the first bullet is pretty opaque—“current 
system.” Simon said the same as we have been doing for the past 10 years. As the SOMA 
shrinks, what is the characteristic that describes “current”? That’s a question that people are 
going to have. It was pretty obvious 8 or 10 years ago, but now it’s a little different. Frankly, I 
believe this is language that only professional Fed watchers can love. The terminology of 
“abundant reserves” or “floor system” is much clearer and more transparent. As it is now 
written, I can imagine that more casual readers of Fed statements will be asking why we are 
bothering to tell them that we’re not making a change. 
January 29–30, 2019
61 of 255
 
 
 
 
The short statement that we’re planning to release looks different than most things that 
I’ve seen in the past. It’s just very short. It’s got a couple of different ideas in it, and I wonder 
about how that’s going to be received. And I thought the second sentence in the introduction 
was a little—I had to read it five times to have a better idea of what it was referring to, the first 
bullet or other parts of that. Regarding the second bullet on that statement, I am fine with the 
intent of the second bullet. It reaffirms that the funds rate is our primary means for adjusting 
monetary policy while usefully stating that the Committee is prepared to adjust the specifics of 
the normalization plan in response to economic and financial market developments. 
I think we are well served by reminding the public about the sequencing. We want to 
avoid the perception that we are prone to making frequent changes to balance sheet policy, as 
this would add unneeded uncertainty to financial markets and likely boost interest rate risk 
premiums. However, we must also recognize that circumstances could arise that would call for 
some adjustment of plans to complement interest rate policy. The June 2017 policy 
normalization principles addendum mentioned the possibility of recommencing reinvestments if 
the funds rate dropped sizably, I think. Presumably, this language makes the threshold easier to 
hit with this adjustment, so I support that. I think the current statement strikes the appropriate 
balance with regard to these considerations. 
Turning to the revised principles document and the second question, I am also in favor of 
the proposed plan for concluding the reduction in our aggregate security holdings and then 
following the Harker proposal of gradually probing for the lowest level of reserves that still 
safely characterizes a floor system with abundant reserves. I am fine stating in March, or even 
now, that we plan to do this in September. The calendar date guidance doesn’t bother me the 
way it does some. Furthermore, we should recognize that determined probing still might only 
January 29–30, 2019
62 of 255
 
 
 
 
allow us to reduce reserve levels by $100 billion or $200 billion. I think probing could be fine, 
but the overall benefit seems small. I agree with Governor Brainard and President Rosengren on 
that. I don’t see a big difference myself, in the substance or in the “optics,” between reserves at 
$800 billion and reserves at $1.1 trillion. I think the benefits are on the optics. I would not see 
this as beneficial if the smaller reserve levels make policy implementation more difficult. So I 
would be fine with the larger number, myself. 
Indeed, I do not like opening the discussion of the first sentence of the first bullet by 
saying that “the appropriate long-run level of reserves is below current levels.” I don’t believe 
this view is free of policy risks. If the Committee communicates too many concerns about the 
size of the balance sheet and reserves, we will reinforce the belief that we will only grudgingly 
pursue unconventional policies to provide accommodation if we ever return to the zero lower 
bound. That would make it harder to commit credibly to do “whatever it takes,”—which is 
really the key to success with such important policies, in my opinion. This is the one thing at the 
top that I learned from the entire time since the Great Recession and everything that we tried to 
do—that if we in any way indicate that we are not really “in it to win it” and willing to do what it 
takes when we’re at the zero lower bound, we are not going to be successful. And little choices 
here and there that would suggest that you might not be amenable to doing that with as much 
amplitude as is needed, I think, will not serve us well. In my view, it is time to clearly state our 
preference for an abundant reserve system—or whatever the right synonym is—no matter how 
large the needed level of reserves turns out to be. 
Turning to the third question, I support the retention of the $20 billion redemption cap on 
MBS. The $20 billion cap is consistent with the current practice and provides a little added 
January 29–30, 2019
63 of 255
 
 
 
 
insurance against market disruptions, especially in situations in which there could be a spike in 
redemptions caused by a decline in rates. 
Let me conclude with the observation that while the revised principles contain a lot of 
useful information, I know market participants will clamor for more. In our financial contact 
calls this round, we heard questions regarding every aspect of the balance sheet that you could 
think of. When will we stop running off assets? When will we start growing the balance sheet 
again? When will we sell MBS? And what will be the future maturity structure of our assets? 
There was a good deal of complaining that we have not revealed more of our thinking on these 
matters, and it is my opinion that this uncertainty may be affecting risky asset prices now. The 
revised principles give the answer to the first of these questions: When are we going to stop the 
drawdown? But market participants are then going to immediately ask: What are we going to 
buy in October, once we stop shrinking the balance sheet in September? Are we going to buy 
across the maturity spectrum, or will we concentrate on shorter-maturity assets to reduce the 
duration on our balance sheet faster? And so how will we answer this question? And, by the 
way, on this issue, I think any decision of whether or not to reduce dramatically the duration of 
our assets in the longer term should only follow an intense evaluation of the macroeconomic 
consequences of such a change. I fear this is a complicated topic and may take a major 
commitment of resources and time. For example, I think we need to assess simulations where 
we find ourselves in a deep recession, and we find if we use the short duration in order to run a 
maturity expansion plan, like we did with Operation Twist—and maybe we need to do more with 
open-ended QE like we did with QE3. How long would it take after all of that is settled to get 
back to a short-duration resting point? 
January 29–30, 2019
64 of 255
 
 
 
 
Is such a short-duration balance sheet going to be a touchstone for where we expect to 
always return at the end of an economic cycle? Or is it just a one-time insurance program now 
because of all of the political issues we might be facing? I think we need to talk about that and 
see how it turns out, because if we can never get back to it, I’m not sure how useful that is. Even 
though we haven’t done enough analysis on this or other questions to make final decisions yet, 
we don’t want markets to think that we’re ignoring key issues. So I think it would be useful in 
the Chair’s press conference to explicitly acknowledge a number of other important questions we 
realize we have to answer. And to the extent we can, we should soon provide technical 
documents, systematically describing the key tradeoffs that we’re dealing with. The Committee 
and the Chair should be seen as leading the intellectual narrative about the balance sheet. This is 
the best way to avoid public misperceptions and market disruptions as we work our way through 
this process. So while our communications now and in March will be helpful, we’d better be 
ready soon to provide the public with more detailed information on other aspects of future 
balance sheet policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. I’m going to recognize myself for a brief two-
hander—just to, maybe, leaven the discussion of these issues. So, first, we can talk about 
“abundant” versus “plentiful” and that kind of thing, but I’m in no way backing away from a 
sizable balance sheet—in fact, if I make sure of one thing, it will be that estimates of the 
equilibrium size of the balance sheet have risen, because estimates of reserve demand have risen, 
and that means a bigger balance sheet, and it means that we hit the end of runoff sooner. I intend 
to confirm that either in my remarks, or in Q&A, and I think it may be better to do it in the 
remarks. So I’m not backing away from that. I think that’s critical. I will also say, and hope it 
will persuade people, that the equilibrium level of the balance sheet, at the end of the day, is 
January 29–30, 2019
65 of 255
 
 
 
 
really a function of technical factors, particularly demand for reserves. It’s not some monetary 
policy choice that the Federal Reserve makes, although I would like to be able to say that our 
framework is sort of a second-order importance, compared to the level of demand for resources. 
So that’s one thing. 
Second, as I referenced in my remarks, I am going to say that this decision to adopt this 
framework opens the road ahead to resolve the very issues that we’re talking about, starting with 
the stopping date, but also moving on to things like MBS and, more importantly, the composition 
of the balance sheet. So I do see us—I hope, in March—as making a decision on a stopping date 
along the lines that President Harker has mentioned and laying out all of this. I’ll create an 
expectation that we’re going to be chopping through these issues, because I completely agree 
with what many of you have said that there are burning issues that we’re going to need to get to. 
Okay, I’ll stop there. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the decision to formalize and 
announce the FOMC’s long-run framework as one featuring abundant reserves. As I stated 
during earlier discussions on this topic, the risks of going home to a framework featuring a 
limited reserves requirement are significant, and an abundant-reserves regime is more robust and 
agile in the face of financial and economic distress. With this decision made, attention turns to 
the balance sheet and its implications for its runoff. Given that there is uncertainty about the 
precise level of demand for reserves, I am in favor of slowing the rundown of the balance sheet 
in such a way that does not risk our shrinking the balance sheet beyond a threshold level that 
would move us into a limited reserves regime. A strategy involving stopping active runoff at 
some point clearly above the threshold, followed by monitoring how demand for reserves 
evolves and learning how reserve dynamics change when the balance sheet arrives at that level—
January 29–30, 2019
66 of 255
 
 
 
 
which is the now-named Harker plan, and which is the approach contemplated here—seems 
prudent to me. I’m also fine with the larger number, in terms of stopping, so $1.2 trillion seems 
reasonable to me. 
Regarding the transition plan, I’m fine with specifying a date. Before this meeting, I 
didn’t have a strong opinion about what date is preferable, but I will say that my first reaction to 
the exhibits presented today suggests to me that a supplemental buffer of $100 billion seems a bit 
small. So waiting until the end of the year seems to me to not be appropriate, and I’d be open to 
either the June or the September date. June seems fine to me. I’m certainly undecided about the 
redemption cap for agency MBS. I can see pros and cons, and I haven’t gotten to a comfort 
point one way or the other. I will say that there are a lot of moving parts right now, and trying to 
simplify the space in which there is uncertainty and change, might argue for keeping it for a 
while as we think about this. 
I also want to say that I do believe it’s optimal to delay announcing many of these 
balance sheet details to a future date and not have this happen tomorrow. One reason is because 
I have a “one decision, one memo” policy that I like to stick to. But the second is that I think 
taking more time, and hinting about the likelihood of additional balance sheet decisions in the 
future, as you mentioned you might do in the press conference, preserves the view that we are a 
deliberative body and that we continue to work together to come to conclusions in a way that 
may be less clear if it were all bundled together in such a short fashion. 
Now, regarding the specifics of the communication, I have a few thoughts. For the 
statement regarding monetary policy implementation, like President Bullard, I struggled with 
that second bullet. I think that the last sentence is perhaps a bit more situation-specific than I’d 
like. I don’t know that I have a good solution. One solution might be to drop it altogether, but if 
January 29–30, 2019
67 of 255
 
 
 
 
there is importance in saying that we’re willing to use the full range of tools, I would suggest 
adopting language such as we saw in exhibit 2, which is just to say “if justified by 
circumstances” and leave it at that. 
I’d also like to point to an issue that I raised in the first discussion about the long-run 
framework—namely, that this approach explicitly links monetary policy and bank liquidity 
regulation. I believe there would be value in exploring whether there are regulatory reforms that 
could reduce the volatility of reserve demand without adversely affecting bank liquidity and 
financial stability. 
And then, finally, I’d like to thank the staff for their hard work on this, and there’s a lot 
that went into this, up to the very last minute, and I very much appreciate their diligence and care 
in moving this forward. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’m fine with the floor system. I’m fine with the 
Harker plan, which I think is quite an elegant way to land the plane here, and I’m fine with the 
proposed two-step communication timing, recognizing there’s risk of market reaction no matter 
what we do, and I do think there will be market chatter regardless of what we do. I hope we are 
still planning continued Committee conversations on how to minimize the level of reserves in the 
floor system. We’re taking it as a given, but I’d like to imagine that it could someday be billions, 
not trillions. The political and public perception risks of a large balance sheet do still concern 
me, and as I said last time, the staff has identified interesting mechanisms for reducing the 
demand for reserves, including a differential pricing scheme that I do think we should explore 
further. 
January 29–30, 2019
68 of 255
 
 
 
 
On the choice of when to end remittances, I’m comfortable with September. It 
diminishes the perception that we’re making this move as a reaction to the market turmoil that 
followed the December meeting. It also allows reserves to fall further before slowing the pace at 
the time. I would prefer not to reinvest into more MBS. Reinvesting only in Treasur securities 
moves us more rapidly toward our stated long-run goal regarding the composition of the balance 
sheet, and I’ve seen no evidence of fragility in MBS markets that would warrant a slower 
approach. On the statements—and, I guess, I apologize to the staff for all of the help you’re 
getting with these statements. [Laughter] They did come in yesterday. So [laughter], a point of 
view. I might suggest looking at the words “extensive” and “thorough” in the first sentence. In 
law school, I learned that when you use the word “clearly,” it actually means not that clear. 
[Laughter] And, to me, it just seems to protest too much. On the phrase “abundant,” I was one 
of the people with President Rosengren, who suggested we take it out for the political economy 
reason you suggested. I think I’ve been convinced by today’s conversation that referring to this 
as a floor system might actually be a simpler, easier, cleaner way to communicate what is really 
important that we communicate here, which is that this is the system we’re using. I would agree 
with those who have said the paragraph we’ve got now is just a little confusing on what it is. An 
alternative would be to take out the words “is sufficient to” and just say “a regime in which the 
quantity of reserves ensures that control over the level” et cetera. But, again, you’ve gotten a lot 
of help with that. 
On the March statement, I would add a sentence that makes the case for what we’ve done 
to reduce reserves, and I would use that statement to focus attention on reserves, rather than the 
entire balance sheet. As Governor Brainard said, I’d like us to declare victory here, perhaps a 
subbullet that says “by September”—if we chose September—“reserves will be 60 percent lower 
January 29–30, 2019
69 of 255
 
 
 
 
than they were at their peak.” If we don’t focus readers on what the right metric is—reserves—
and what our real accomplishments have been—taking it down 60 percent from its peak—I don’t 
think we can expect them to get there on their own. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the statement regarding monetary 
policy implementation and it being issued in January, with the view that in the press conference 
you will foreshadow the work we’re doing on the revised normalization principles and plans. 
I’m assuming, regarding the statement on monetary policy implementation, that we reserve the 
flexibility to tweak elements of the current framework down the road—alternatives to the federal 
funds rate, introducing the ceiling facility, and so on. I support announcing a specific date later 
this year when we plan to end the balance sheet runoff. I do think an announcement regarding a 
date would reassure market participants and remove one source of uncertainty, and I come at this 
from a view that there are significant structural changes going on in the financial markets, and 
we talked about some of those earlier. The Federal Reserve is a part of that. I’m not sure we’re 
the cause of these things, but I would like to get us out of the way. And I think, in addition to us 
getting out of the way, it would not surprise me that there will need to be some study of the role 
of algorithms, exchange traded funds (ETFs), and other structural elements in these markets. I’m 
pretty confident this debate is not going away, and I think it’s unlikely to go away, because when 
corporate earnings are weaker, and the market is more likely to go lower, these issues are raised 
with a lot more zeal than when it’s going the other way. And I think that an adverse scenario is 
very likely in front of us. So I’m glad to get us out of the way of this discussion and remove 
that—at least making sure that the Federal Reserve is not part of that uncertainty. I believe the 
end of September makes sense. I’d be supportive of that. I don’t like December, because you’ve 
January 29–30, 2019
70 of 255
 
 
 
 
got these year-end idiosyncratic pressures in the securities markets. That gives people enough 
time to get ready for September, in terms of the gradual approach to the final level of reserves, 
and also gives us a chance to make a little bit more progress in normalization. 
I do favor a portfolio weighted heavily toward short-term Treasury securities, and I 
gather that this $20 billion cap—which we all agree on MBS is unlikely to be reached—at least 
protects against the scenario when there is a downturn: there’s a decline in rates, you’ve got 
unexpectedly high prepayments, I could see why we might be glad that we’ve got a cap on. But 
that’s against the objective that I would like to see—us eventually getting to a portfolio that is 
composed mostly of short-term Treasury securities. And the reason I’d like to see that is that I 
want us to be well positioned to provide balance sheet accommodation should a future recession 
threaten to push us back against the lower bound. In this interim period, while we’re doing this 
work, I would like us to take advantage of the time to—again, as we’ve talked before—tweak 
banking regulations, if possible, and look at other adjustments that will allow the banks to more 
easily hold Treasury securities in lieu of reserves, or encourage a more efficient distribution of 
reserves across banks, or both. It would also give us time to introduce, as has been mentioned, a 
no-stigma, or low-stigma, repo facility ceiling mechanism that might limit upside potential 
moves in the federal funds rate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I listened to this morning’s discussion, it 
took me back to conversations we had around this table some years ago about the use of balance 
sheet policy and its cost and benefits. And one of the costs that the staff highlighted in one of 
their memos was complications to setting monetary policy in the future. So comments today, I 
think, point to that, and as Simon and some others said, there are some things we think we know 
January 29–30, 2019
71 of 255
 
 
 
 
and some we are still learning, and I think we’ll have to be flexible about that. For me, what 
seems very important about the release of the statement and communications is that we really 
separate our choice of an operating framework, and what we need to do to control interest rates, 
from the use of the balance sheet as a policy instrument. 
So that’s the context that I think about those three questions. I do support a statement 
that would come out of this meeting that indicates our intention to continue with the current 
operating framework over the longer run. And I think, with thoughtful staff work, and past 
Committee deliberations about the various attributes of that operating regime, I’m comfortable 
that we can settle that aspect of balance sheet normalization. I, too, was one that “pushed back” 
on the use of the word “abundant,” and the reason I did is not because we hadn’t used it, 
generously. But, when we did, it was always in the context of a contrast to where we were pre-
crisis: Trying to say, “pre-crisis, we had a very small level of reserves, that’s how the Desk 
would try to manage interest rate control,”—and we were contrasting that to “abundance.” I did 
have in mind, in wanting to move away from that, both the political economy issues that 
associated it with big balance sheet and whatever that connoted, but really to go back to saying 
this isn’t really about a specific size issue as much as it is to say it’s about a framework that 
focuses not on controlling the supply of reserves, but focuses on using an administered rate. So I 
think, again, in order to be clear about why we’re choosing this path, I’d want to separate it from 
the policy implications. 
I also support releasing additional details about our plans. I think there’s going to be 
continued appetite for that, particularly after they see this statement tomorrow, and so we can 
clear those up, I hope, at upcoming meetings. And I, too, am comfortable with the proposed 
September date for the conclusion of reducing our asset holdings. 
January 29–30, 2019
72 of 255
 
 
 
 
With respect to the composition of the balance sheet, I favor an active approach in 
transitioning to a shorter-duration, Treasury securities-only portfolio, and to that end, I have a 
strong preference for continued runoff of agency MBS. But I would support retaining the $20 
billion cap to avoid unnecessary disruption if we had an economic shock that drove down long-
term rates and might lead to an increase in prepayments. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Regarding question 1, over previous FOMC 
discussions there has been an emerging consensus to continue to use an abundant reserves 
operating framework, and I support that, as well as announcing that decision after this meeting. 
We have referred to the framework as “abundant reserves” in the minutes, and I guess I would 
favor continuing to refer to it that way, in order to avoid confusion. Whatever we call it, we will 
have to explain in subsequent communications what this framework is, how it will work, and that 
it’s consistent with normalization, especially to those, including legislators, who have expressed 
concerns about the size of our balance sheet. 
Now, I’m going to go to a place you might not want to go. Instead of issuing a separate 
statement on implementation after this meeting, as suggested, I think it would just be cleaner to 
include a revised first bullet point in tomorrow’s post-meeting FOMC statement as just a bottom 
point in that statement and then include this revised second bullet with the communications that 
we’ll release with the revised principles and plans at the March meeting, or a later meeting if 
that’s what we decide. I interpret the added bullet point here as basically saying that, if we see 
the balance sheet normalization adversely affecting market conditions, we will be ready to revise 
the plan, and not that we’re going to be using the balance sheet as an active tool unless we see a 
material change in the economic outlook. 
January 29–30, 2019
73 of 255
 
 
 
 
This really pertains to the plan that we’re not going to be talking about until March. So, 
in that sense, I think maybe just keeping this bullet point, and the revisions here, to when we give 
out the whole revised principles, might make more sense to me than just announcing that we 
made our decision that we’re going to continue in the framework we’re in. I don’t think that 
delaying the release of this bullet point is going to have any kind of cost. I think that the 
possibility of consternation in the markets in the intermeeting period can largely be avoided by 
providing communications in the press conference. So I don’t think delaying this will 
necessarily change anything, and you have the press conference to alleviate any concerns. 
On question 2 regarding the transition plan, the memo suggests that $1 trillion of reserves 
is a plausible estimate of the minimum amount of reserves necessary to operate in an abundant 
reserve regime. And this would include the buffer to ensure that we operate consistently on the 
flat part of the reserves demand curve and to minimize excess volatility in money market rates 
from reserve demand and supply shocks. But, as the memo says, there is uncertainty regarding 
that estimate. So the idea of any redemptions in slowing the decline in reserves before they 
reach a $1 trillion level seems like a prudent thing to do. 
Now, the choice of stopping date, then, is a choice of how far above $1 trillion we want 
to be when we slow the current pace of decline in reserves to a much slower pace. Stopping 
redemptions earlier means stopping them at a higher level of reserves, so it takes longer to get to 
$1 trillion: According to the staff memo, that period of slow decline in reserves would last two 
and a half years with a June stopping date, one and a half years with a September stopping date, 
and half a year with a December stopping date. And, of course, there is some uncertainty about 
$1trillion, which would also add some uncertainty. But I would be comfortable with ending 
January 29–30, 2019
74 of 255
 
 
 
 
redemptions in December. I think there is some benefit of having the balance sheet normalize 
sooner rather than later and before the next downturn, whenever that occurs. 
Regarding the communications, I appreciate the changes that have been made in 
successive drafts of the revised normalization principles and plans. I was concerned that the 
earlier drafts did not adequately communicate the rationale for selecting the particular date for 
when redemptions would end. This draft provides the context—namely, that we would like to 
end redemptions to allow the level of reserves to decline more slowly to our longer-run desired 
level of reserves, consistent with efficient and effective policy implementation under the 
abundant reserves framework. I think we can actually go farther and include our current $1 
trillion estimate of that level, with appropriate caveats about the uncertainty of that estimate, and 
noting that it could change as we gain experience. We are, after all, making the decision on the 
basis of our current estimates. So I think that should be conveyed to the public. I do understand, 
however, there may be some reluctance to do that, and I think the inevitable question about our 
estimate of the desired longer-run level of reserves, and our projection of our balance sheet asset 
size when redemptions end, could be handled in a press conference or other communications. I 
do think we should think through in advance how the Committee would handle the case in which 
the $1 trillion estimate of the desired amount of reserves turns out to be off. If $1 trillion is too 
high, it wouldn’t jeopardize operating in an abundant-reserves regime, but it would mean that 
getting to the minimum effective and efficient size would take longer, and it increases the chance 
we may not be done normalizing before the next recession. If $1 trillion turns out to be too low, 
the Committee might have to end redemptions before the announced date. So there are tradeoffs 
and communication issues to consider, and we should do that now so we’ll know how to handle 
each situation. 
January 29–30, 2019
75 of 255
 
 
 
 
Finally, on question 3, regarding balance sheet composition, my preference is that when 
we stop redemptions, we begin reinvesting all of the principal payments received from agency 
MBS into Treasury securities. This would allow a slightly faster return to a portfolio of 
primarily Treasury securities—which I support. I would also support shortening the duration of 
the SOMA portfolio. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These meetings are getting harder. I 
support the strategy of bifurcated communications—announcing the policy framework with this 
meeting, followed by further details on the normalization plan in March—as opposed to some of 
the comments that perhaps those should be combined. I also support the announcement at this 
meeting of our decision to continue to operate in our current regime, with administered rates 
serving as our primary policy instrument. We’ve discussed that subject at length. We have 
benefited from extensive and excellent staff analysis, and because of the communication given in 
the minutes and elsewhere, I don’t think it will be a tremendous surprise to markets or the public 
that we intend to do that. 
There have been plenty of last-minute suggestions on possible changes to the language 
that would be released today. I don’t have any suggested change to the language. I do worry a 
bit about how the phrase “in which active management of the supply of reserves is not required” 
will be interpreted. As we have discussed in previous meetings, there is a tradeoff between the 
size of the buffer that we carry on the balance sheet, and the frequency of open market operations 
that will be needed to smooth through temporary shifts in reserves demand. And if what we’re 
saying here is that—if the phrase “no active management” is interpreted to rule out all open 
market operations—that’s implicitly promising a very large buffer. And I think we should retain 
January 29–30, 2019
76 of 255
 
 
 
 
the flexibility to react to shocks in reserve demand if necessary and not rely wholly on the size of 
the buffer. I think that’s principally a communication as to what “active management” means, 
and we may want to more precisely define what we mean by “active.” Does that imply no daily 
operations, but still allow infrequent operations? That would certainly be my preference. I think 
that can be handled simply by communicating what “active management” means, as opposed to 
proposing yet another change in the language for today. 
On the revision to the normalization plan, we were all watching paint dry, but we thought 
it was beige paint, and it turns out that others thought it was heliotrope. [Laughter] So I support 
providing additional certainty. I do wonder, with the language that we have now in the 
normalization plan, whether we’re providing enough information on how the balance sheet 
would evolve once we have essentially stopped it. We had always said in the past—and indeed it 
has occasionally been mentioned around here, but it’s not in the proposed language anymore—
that the level of reserves would be the lowest level consistent with efficient and effective 
operation of the system. And it no longer says that. It says it will be a level that is consistent 
with the efficient and effective operation of the system with respect to reserves. Simon had an 
interesting discussion that I need to understand better, and following the Chairman’s desire, I left 
that for these comments, as opposed to asking the question at the time, as to how “effective” 
does not provide any sort of content for what the level of reserves might be because there are a 
broad number of levels of reserves, that might be “effective.” “Efficient”—there might be some 
way to say—well, “efficient” does sort of imply a particular level of reserves, but I’m not sure it 
provides enough information. And will people really understand what we’re saying, or will they 
be asking for more information about, “well, what is this ‘efficient and effective level of 
reserves,’ if you’re not saying it’s the lowest level that is efficient and effective?” But there’s 
January 29–30, 2019
77 of 255
 
 
 
 
plenty of time to talk about that before March. I think that’s principally a question that I have 
now as to whether we have overremoved information from that. 
On the question of keeping or removing the cap on MBS rolloff, I am not agnostic, but I 
don’t have strong feelings. I strongly support a return to a Treasury securities-only portfolio, so 
I’d support seeing the cap go as a way of expediting and simplifying the process. But I think I 
share President Bostic’s view that removing the cap is potentially just one more moving piece. 
On the basis of my understanding of Trevor’s presentation, the cap isn’t likely really to be 
binding very often in any event—it’s not actually that operational. So it might be just as well to 
keep the cap in place if we don’t think it’s actually making a difference, and it just removes a 
certain amount of confusion. 
On when the balance sheet rolloff ought to stop, as the staff materials make clear, the 
choice of June, September, or December has a relatively small effect on the evolution of the 
balance sheet. So the choice of months seems more important from a communication standpoint. 
My preference is for a December stop. I think that’s in line with what the market expectations 
were at the end of last year, but the market’s views have been particularly fluid of late. 
Expectations could be shifting forward. I certainly take note of President Kaplan’s remark that 
December is a squirrelly month, so maybe you don’t want to add additional “squirreliness” into 
it. On the other hand, if this is a stopping date that one has announced in advance, I think that 
probably wouldn’t necessarily add to the general unusual market activity in December. But still, 
I would be willing to reassess my preference for December in the lead-up to the March meeting 
as we discuss this further. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
January 29–30, 2019
78 of 255
 
 
 
 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also support announcing that we will 
continue to use our current operating regime. The current regime has many benefits, and using 
our administered rates as the primary tools to influence the federal funds rate is simple and 
straightforward, and it’s a regime that’s been working well to control interest rates since the 
financial crisis. 
I note from reviewing minutes and transcripts that the Committee has discussed this 
choice thoroughly and has come to a deliberate decision. And, now that we have reached this 
conclusion, it is time to tell the public. This is a unique moment. By choosing a long-run 
operating regime, we’re bringing to an end the extraordinary measures that the Federal Reserve 
took during the financial crisis and setting our course for the future. This announcement will 
show that monetary policy is getting back to normal. 
The statement on monetary policy implementation in my mind does a good job of laying 
out our thinking. I particularly support the second bullet that makes clear our approach as 
flexible and subject to change if developments warrant. We have emphasized that monetary 
policy is data dependent, and that philosophy should apply to the balance sheet normalization as 
well. Deciding to keep the current operating regime still leaves some important questions: How 
many reserves do we need to supply? And how big does our balance sheet need to be? They 
should be sufficient to avoid scarcity. We should operate efficiently and should not force banks 
to hold more reserves than make safe and sound business sense. There should be a safety net for 
the banking system, but the right size. Still, to me, this is mainly a matter of getting supervision 
and regulation right. And given the regulations that are in place today, we need to supply 
enough reserves for banks to be able to comply without difficulty. So I’m in favor of stopping 
balance sheet runoff before reserves become scarce. But as all of this recent staff work has made 
January 29–30, 2019
79 of 255
 
 
 
 
clear, there is a lot of uncertainty about how many reserves banks need and want to hold. I don’t 
think that we should resolve that uncertainty today, or that we need to today, but just announcing 
our choice of an operating regime will show that we are making significant progress. 
Deferring a decision about that exact stopping point for the balance sheet will have two 
important benefits. First, if we announced an end to the balance sheet runoff right now, we could 
appear to be reactive to the recent volatility in financial markets. Deferring an announcement on 
the balance sheet will demonstrate that we’re deliberative and intentional about our 
policymaking and that the FOMC makes decisions on the basis of what’s best for the long run. 
Second, we are set to make two major announcements this week, a significant change to our 
policy statement, as well as a decision on the long-run operating regime. And we’re laying out a 
lot of information. Adding a plan for the balance sheet would make the communications even 
more complex. If we defer the balance sheet decision, we can spread these announcements out 
over a period of time and make it easier for the public to understand it, and absorb it, as well as 
provide time for sufficient deliberation. 
When the time comes, I would be comfortable with the proposed transition plan for the 
balance sheet. It will reduce uncertainty about our intentions while helping us figure out how to 
get a level of reserves that is no larger than necessary and appropriate to implement policy. 
Regarding that exact stopping date, I’d be comfortable with either September or December as the 
time frame, although I do recognize that December can create some issues, as Governor Quarles 
and President Bostic noted earlier. But June seems to me to be too soon and too reactive to the 
market developments. 
With respect to the MBS holdings and the redemption cap, I would be inclined to drop 
the cap. I agree with the Committee’s long-standing plan to hold primarily Treasury securities in 
January 29–30, 2019
80 of 255
 
 
 
 
the longer run, and moving away from MBS holdings is an important part of unwinding the 
response to the crisis. And with that now in our past, I think we can safely remove the cap and 
let the MBS portfolio fully run off. Of course, there could be extreme scenarios where we would 
want to slow the runoff of MBS holdings again. But, as our new statement on policy 
implementation makes clear, we have the flexibility to adjust our plans in light of developments. 
Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you, President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In response to the questions from the 
staff, first, I support indicating in January that we intend to operate in a floor framework. I’m 
agnostic as to the use of the word “abundant.” 
The second bullet, though, introduced a bunch of questions for me and my staff. It 
strikes us as being somewhat ambiguous. We say that the target rate for the federal fund rate is 
our “primary means of adjusting the stance of monetary policy,” but then in the next two 
sentences we say that we reserve the right to do whatever we need to do, depending on market 
conditions. It seems like it opens us up to questions about whether the balance sheet is becoming 
an active policy tool. I’ll give you an example. So let’s imagine that the economy slows down 
over the next couple of quarters. It seems conceivable that we could pause the rolloff before we 
cut the federal funds rate, and so that means, whether we like it or not, the balance sheet is 
somewhat becoming an active policy tool. 
I actually like President Bullard’s suggestions of calling out the federal funds rate as our 
primary tool as the first bullet; the second bullet is we’re going to operate in a floor system; and 
then the third bullet is simply that the Committee is prepared to adjust any details for completing 
our balance sheet normalization in light of economic developments. I agree with President 
January 29–30, 2019
81 of 255
 
 
 
 
Bostic. I don’t think the last sentence is actually necessary. It strikes me as being duplicative of 
the second sentence in the second bullet, and it’s just doubling down on this active element of the 
balance sheet where we need more accommodation. I think we’re entering into an ambiguous 
area from a policy standpoint. It strikes me that simplifying this would serve our interests. So 
that’s one comment. 
On the second question, I understand the logic of the Harker plan, or the Armenter plan, 
depending on how it turns out, and I support it. Between September or December, I have a slight 
preference for December. A lot of our discussions in the past couple of meetings were about 
trying to make sure that we have QE available to us in the future, and that means rebuilding 
political credibility to support this as a policy tool, and that means demonstrating that we can 
shrink the balance sheet back down. Now, I appreciate the comments of Governor Brainard and 
President Barkin about defining success, and we need to do that, because we haven’t done that 
yet. But I do think it’s worth exploring how low we can get reserves. I guess I don’t see a huge 
cost. If banks have to own Treasury bills instead of reserves, so what? There are a lot of 
Treasury bills out there, and they’re highly liquid, and if banks have to work a little bit harder to 
own T-bills, it strikes me as not that problematic, from our perspective. So I’d want to better 
understand what these costs are. 
When I think about the statement—the revised normalization principles—the words that 
gave me pause, were that we “will likely hold the size of the SOMA portfolio roughly constant 
for a time.” That strikes me as limiting ourselves to too short a period of time. Maybe we might 
want to hold it for an extended period of time, while we explore how low we can get the reserve 
levels, and how we see if banks can pivot to owning T-bills. That strikes me as reasonable. So I 
would want to try to not box us in, to make this pause in the balance sheet so limited; maybe it’ll 
January 29–30, 2019
82 of 255
 
 
 
 
end up being a longer pause, because maybe it’s not that difficult for banks to transition to T-
bills. 
My last comment is that I’m agnostic as to the MBS cap. I don’t have a strong view. In 
terms of our holdings, long term, I also support going to a Treasury securities-only portfolio. At 
the previous meeting I expressed a concern—I wasn’t sure about just going to a portfolio of 
short-term Treasury securities. I see the benefits of having that, because it gives us policy space. 
But there are some political economy concerns, the more I think about it, because if we 
announce—and I don’t have a strong view yet—that we’re going to own short-term Treasury 
securities, it seems like it’s easy then for the Treasury Department to say, “Well, great. We’re 
going to fund ourselves short,” and then all of a sudden that may compromise our independence 
through no fault of our own, just through uncoordinated action that it seems like we’re ending up 
coordinating—as opposed to, if we say, “We’re going to buy across the Treasury curve.” It 
strikes me that that’s a stronger position to be in, in terms of preserving our independence, 
regardless of how the Treasury chooses to fund itself. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I’ll just start by thanking the staff. I appreciate all the work, even over this 
weekend. And, from the sound of it, there’ll be more work to do. So thank you in advance. 
I am broadly in favor of the proposed plans. I will tell you that when I first saw them, I 
thought it would be better to bundle it all and release it in March, simply to get us some space 
between the policy statement, which is going to be quite a bit different than December, and this, 
largely to attend to what President George said, which is that we want to distinguish our 
operating framework from active balance sheet policy. But with the conversations around the 
table and just thinking about this again, I can absolutely support doing the first part of it 
January 29–30, 2019
83 of 255
 
 
 
 
tomorrow, and the actual plans for it in March. That’s mainly because, I think, the 
announcement of this abundant-reserves operating regime will be really a surprise to no one. 
They can look at the minutes, the speeches, our discussions. We’ve had considerable 
deliberations weighing the pros and cons. And so I think that would not be a big event. 
I do think it will already start to bring more questions to us that we haven’t yet figured 
out, which is, is the federal funds rate going to be our policy rate that we’ll go forward with? 
Will we have floor or ceiling facilities in there? So there are all of these questions that will 
probably be asked of you tomorrow, Chair Powell, that we will start to have to deal with. And so 
as soon as we’re done with this, I think we’re going to have to go back to asking those questions 
and deliberating on that. 
Many people around the table had reservations about the second bullet point, and I’m 
going to add my own reservations. They’re not that different. I think, as Trevor indicated, the 
second bullet point was set up as a complete replication of the June 2017 statement, just 
replacing the tone of the second and third statement. But I think it runs the risk of conflating the 
idea that we’re going to manage the balance sheet actively—the normalization program—and the 
funds rate target. I originally had a proposal in mind very much like, I think, what President 
Kashkari last said, which is to separate the funds rate from the normalization details, from the 
balance sheet framework in general. I don’t end with a strong view of whether we should do that 
as much as I think, in the press conference, you will have to distinguish balance sheet 
normalization policy in which we roll off more slowly or more rapidly in light of financial and 
economic developments, from our operating framework, and from the fact that our primary tool 
is the federal funds rate. And I don’t think that is going to be immediately clear just from the 
statement draft that we’ve seen. So whether we do it in the press conference and subsequent 
January 29–30, 2019
84 of 255
 
 
 
 
communications, or we change the bullet points, as some have proposed—I think either one of 
those would be acceptable. 
Now, regarding the transition plan, I actually made a case for doing something similar to 
taper our pace in December, so I’m quite comfortable with this approach—the Harker plan. I 
think it will help us get a soft landing, and it will help us figure out where the steep part of the 
demand curve is. And I’m for September, because I like the idea of a buffer and slowly finding 
where that steep part is, as opposed to quickly finding it and increasing volatility. 
On the MBS, in the long run, I would be in favor of removing it, but for now, for no other 
reason than reducing uncertainty, I would be in favor of keeping it. I also think it’s worth more 
consideration about whether it gives us some low-cost insurance if, I think as President Kaplan 
said, we get an adverse scenario where interest rates drop and prepayments surge, having such a 
cap will help calm markets. And so it’s a low-cost insurance policy that doesn’t seem likely to 
be used, but it could be in the future. 
Finally, before I turn to whether I think we should do “abundant,” in terms of the future 
discussions, I think one of the things that’s on the top of my mind is the SOMA portfolio and 
what we are going to do. And I don’t have a view yet about whether the move should be of short 
duration. I think that gives us the ability to do an Operation Twist, but I’m with President 
Kashkari: If we have something that looks very much like the stock of Treasuries out there, that 
eliminates some of the political risks. So I think more robust conversations about that, and 
sooner rather than later, would be a good thing to have. 
Now, regarding the floor, I hadn’t really thought about this, but I am at the Reserve Bank 
that runs the game “Chair the Fed.” I can guarantee you that if we put in there, instead of “we 
have a corridor system” or that we had one—if we put in there that “quantity of reserves is 
January 29–30, 2019
85 of 255
 
 
 
 
sufficient to ensure that control over the”—that paragraph, that’s not going to work. So I would 
suggest that we go to something like saying it’s a floor system. You can look it up on 
Wikipedia. [Laughter.] People will figure it out. I would propose that we say “policy in a floor 
regime in which the quantity of reserves is more than sufficient.” I like the “more than 
sufficient.” I think there is concern over language on “abundant” and “ample”—those are 
undefined in and of themselves—but a floor system is just a mechanism; it’s a production 
function of how to do this. And then “more than sufficient” just says we’re not going to get right 
to the very end before we decide to quit. So, with that, I will conclude. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chairman Williams. 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to start off, I think we 
all know there’s a great deal of attention out there in the markets on the subject of our balance 
sheet normalization—far more than we anticipated—but I don’t think that’s going away anytime 
soon. So I think there are some meaningful advantages, as many others have said, to providing 
some greater clarity at this time. I would love it if we could provide the whole package and 
describe all of the pieces of that, but I think that, as many others have commented, that’s a lot to 
digest at one time. And also, I do believe, like others have said, that this is a group that works 
best when it has a chance to deliberate, to think through, to study carefully, what are some pretty 
technical issues. 
I do think we are in a good place, and we can provide some greater clarity regarding our 
longer-term operating framework, and some other issues, at this juncture. And then, as the 
Chairman said in his opening remarks, this opens the road ahead to a sequence of discussions for 
this group, supported by deliberate work by our staff—I’m sure they’re excited about that. As 
January 29–30, 2019
86 of 255
 
 
 
 
we sequence this through, there’s a natural way of providing greater clarity over the next six 
months or year on some issues. And I’ll come back to that. 
I think, right now, on the basis of our discussions in November/December and today, 
there is clearly strong support for an abundant reserves floor system long-run operating 
framework. I support that fully. I’m not going to go through all the reasons, because we’ve 
talked about it, but it works well. 
It does get to this issue the Chairman mentioned, which I think is important. When we 
actually did the homework about how would we operate in this new world, more of a corridor 
system, there was a realization that the Federal Reserve’s “footprint”—in particular, the New 
York Fed’s “footprint”—in markets would be extremely large and very extensive. And when 
you think about, well, how does that sound in terms of an operating system, I think there are 
some disadvantages. So I think that the approach that we’re taking is a very good one. In terms 
of the words, again, I think there are different ways to describe it. I do think “floor system” has 
some advantages in some audiences; “abundant reserves” has advantages in others. Basically, 
it’s incumbent upon all of us in our communications to describe it in a consistent way. 
On the second point—and this gets to the second bullet point—I do think that it’s really 
important that the Committee provides reassurance that we are not on a preset course on balance 
sheet normalization, that we will be focused on economic financial conditions and our dual 
mandate. I do think a fault of the June 2017 principles that we put out is that, for reasons that I 
and many in this room supported at the time, it did put a very high bar on thinking about 
adjusting the balance sheet normalization. I do still believe that the federal funds rate, or the 
policy rate, is our primary instrument. But as we get closer to that endpoint—now we’re in 
January heading into February, we’re thinking about ending this in September and then adjusting 
January 29–30, 2019
87 of 255
 
 
 
 
further—having that freedom to adjust the balance sheet normalization in response to changing 
conditions, I think, is appropriate. I don’t see this as a signal that we’re about to jump into doing 
QE4 or QE5 or anything. It’s really about managing this normalization process, so I strongly 
support that. 
On the comments that a number of people have made regarding bullet point 2, I would 
just reiterate that this is very closely worded to our June 2017 principles. The first sentence and 
the third are almost identical. And so changing the third sentence is not without risk, because 
we’ve said it before. The second sentence, which is I think the offending sentence, in my view, 
that we had before—it had this very high bar in the material deterioration—I view this sentence 
as being closer to our 2014 view and, quite honestly, more appropriate for the juncture we’re at 
today. 
I do think you could write this structure in different ways, and think about it different 
ways. I think that the benefit here is that we’re maintaining the 2017 language to the extent that 
we think it’s appropriate, and we’re putting in this new sentence just because of the fact that 
we’re in a different situation today than then. 
Looking ahead, I heard strong support for this two-phase approach. By the way, it’s 
called the “Philadelphia plan.” When this doesn’t go well, you’ll enjoy the fruits of— 
MR. HARKER. The “New York plan.” 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. The New York plan, right. [Laughter] But I do think 
this two-phase approach has some advantages. I do support September 30. I think that’s a nice 
compromise. I heard a lot of support for that. By the way, on date-based guidance that President 
Bullard picked up on, I’ve gone through the transcripts. I have committed so many sins of 
supporting date-based guidance in my career that I have actually booked a special room in 
January 29–30, 2019
88 of 255
 
 
 
 
central bank purgatory [laughter]—many of us will be spending time in there—but I do think it 
provides the clarity we want. We know that the reserves move around for a lot of reasons. What 
we’re trying to do is simplify our message and clarify it. So I think the date makes sense from 
that point of view. 
In terms of the issue that I think President Rosengren, and I know Governor Brainard and 
maybe some others brought up, it would be good if, in our discussion next time in March, we 
could come to some understanding also of what success looks like. At this moment, without 
hearing that discussion further, I would say our current view is that an amount of reserves of 
roughly $1 trillion is what we expect. So that would be a runoff for maybe two years beyond 
September 30. But just have some of that clarity, because I do think that as soon as we say 
September 30, as soon as we say “We’re doing this,” the questions will be about “Well, how low 
are you going to go?” And so I think that what would be important to discuss at our next 
meeting is, how far are we willing to clarify what we think our ultimate stopping point is. 
Now, getting back to follow-ups, in March I am hopeful we’ll be able to get close, or to, a 
decision on the transition plan. I do think there are a bunch of pieces that have to fit in with that, 
so, like others, I’ll just mention that. I think this MBS cap issue is something—obviously, these 
are operational issues, but I think that we need to get clear on that. My own view, like others, 
is—I don’t want to say ambivalence–I ’m not agnostic, or indifferent—I think the tradeoffs that 
have been articulated are exactly right about the costs and benefits. I think that this is a tertiary 
issue. This is pretty low on the kinds of important issues, but we just have to make a decision 
one way or the other. 
I actually think investments in the Treasury securities is a bigger issue. When we decide 
that on September 30 that the MBS proceeds are now going to be invested into Treasury 
January 29–30, 2019
89 of 255
 
 
 
 
securities, we need to be clear about what that looks like—in terms of are we going to invest 
proportionally in the “universe” of outstanding Treasury securities; are we going to tilt to 
Treasury bills; or whatever—we need to do that as a group. That’s a policy decision. Also, my 
colleagues Simon and Lorie, who are nodding forcefully right now, also need to know what they 
are supposed to do. So I think we have to come to that decision. My own view—I think that 
there are some good options that I think we will be pretty clear on that. 
That ties in, I think, with our decision about the Harker plan. There are some other issues 
that I think we should also be—obviously, we have in front of us the overnight bank funding rate 
(OBFR) issue about switching from the federal funds rate to OBFR. I think once we’ve made 
this decision to go to an abundant reserves floor system, I think the arguments for OBFR become 
compelling, and we should be planning for that and communicating that. 
And then there’s this ultimate composition of the balance sheet. Actually, I don’t think 
we need to decide the ultimate composition of the balance sheet in March or April or May. But 
we do have to start thinking about—and we talked about this in the previous meeting. Right 
now, looking at the end of the year, we are going to have a balance sheet that is heavily in very 
long-duration Treasury securities. And thinking about, how do we get to our preferred duration 
of the balance sheet, over what time frame, and how we should best approach that—those are 
decisions we’re going to need to be making as we move along. Late this year we could just 
continue on the Treasury securities for the reinvestment into the—as we are doing now, we can 
make a pretty straightforward decision on MBS. But if we ever want to get to these issues about 
re-creating, as many people said, a balance sheet that gives us more policy space, we’re going to 
have to, actively, buy into T-bills and actively move the balance sheet that way. Again, these are 
topics that we’re not in a rush to come to decisions on. We can do that over a number of 
January 29–30, 2019
90 of 255
 
 
 
 
meetings. But I do think those are meaningful decisions that follow from the other ones that we 
have. 
So, again, I’m supportive of the approach regarding both the statement to be issued 
tomorrow and—subject to further editing and thinking—in March finalizing the revised policy 
normalization principles and plans. I hope we get some clarity on some of these operational 
issues and then continue to move forward. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Great. Thank you. I’m going to propose that we break for 
lunch. Thanks for your patience. Thanks for controlling your hunger and your “hangriness.” 
[Laughter] We’ll be back here at 2:00. 
[Lunch recess] 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. All right. Thanks, everyone. We can get started again. So 
thanks for a very interesting discussion this morning—a lot of common ground there. We’re 
working a little bit with the statement, and we’ll come back tonight with something and then, I 
hope, get everybody to sign off on that in the morning. In the meantime, let’s get started again 
with the review and discussion of the economic and financial situation. Bill Wascher, Steve 
Kamin, and Michael Kiley will provide the briefings. Bill, over to you. 
MR. WASCHER.
3 All right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’ll be referring to the 
materials in the packet labeled “Material for Briefing on the U.S. Outlook.” The 
available indicators—which are fewer than usual because of the partial government 
shutdown—suggest that real activity ended 2018 on a solid note. As you can see 
from panel 1 of your first forecast summary exhibit, we now think that real GDP rose 
at an annual rate of 2¾ percent in the fourth quarter of last year, ½ percentage point 
faster than our December Tealbook estimate. This upward revision mainly reflects 
the incoming data on consumer spending; in particular, the Census retail sales data 
through November—the black line in panel 2—came in stronger than expected. The 
release of December’s retail sales report was delayed by the shutdown; however, 
other indicators of consumer purchases—such as credit and debit card transaction 
 
3 The materials used by Mr. Wascher are appended to this transcript (appendix 3). 
January 29–30, 2019
91 of 255
 
 
 
 
data received from First Data, the red line—suggest that the pace of household 
spending remained strong last month. 
The December employment report—which was not delayed by the shutdown—
also points to continued strength in real activity. On the household side, the 
unemployment rate rose 0.2 percentage point in December, to 3.9 percent. However, 
this increase in the unemployment rate was accompanied by a similar-sized increase 
in the labor force participation rate. Meanwhile, private payroll employment in the 
BLS’s establishment survey—the red line in panel 3—rose 300,000 in December, 
with upward revisions to previous months. 
The strength in the BLS payroll figure was corroborated by our translation of the 
firm-level data collected by the payroll processor ADP; combining the two estimates 
with a statistical model—the blue line—implies an estimate of private job gains in 
December that well exceeds the pace that we judge to be consistent with an 
unchanged level of labor utilization. We think that some of the December payroll 
gain is attributable to transitory factors and so expect private employment to rise at a 
slower—but still well above trend—average pace of 190,000 jobs per month over the 
first three months of this year. As far as January is concerned, ADP data through the 
first three weeks of the month are consistent with another solid increase in private 
employment. 
Although we think that the economy entered 2019 with a considerable amount of 
forward momentum, we anticipate that output growth will moderate some in the 
current quarter. In particular, growth in consumer spending in recent months appears 
to have been faster than its fundamentals would have suggested, and we expect to see 
PCE growth move back down this year to a rate that is more in line with real 
disposable income growth. This expectation is consistent with the latest readings on 
consumer sentiment, which have softened noticeably. Likewise, we expect growth in 
business fixed investment to step down from its pace in the second half of last year. 
Such a slowing would be consistent with recent readings on durable goods orders as 
well as the less upbeat tone of the various indicators of business sentiment. 
To provide some additional perspective on the current quarter, panel 4 plots the 
distribution of available System nowcasts for first-quarter real GDP growth, the gray 
bars, together with our January Tealbook projection, the vertical red line. 
Importantly, the models underlying these nowcasts draw on a broad range of 
spending and activity indicators, as well as various pieces of financial market data. 
Hence, their perspective is especially useful at present, as the government shutdown 
has delayed a number of key economic data releases and in light of the recent 
volatility in financial markets. As you can see from the panel, the Tealbook’s 
projection of a 2¼ percent increase in first-quarter real GDP is not wildly at odds with 
the median model nowcast, especially given that the model nowcasts—unlike the 
Tealbook forecast—only incorporate the effects of the government shutdown to the 
extent that they are already present in the various indicators that the models employ. 
January 29–30, 2019
92 of 255
 
 
 
 
As noted in panel 5, the partial government shutdown, which ended—at least 
temporarily—last Friday, was about one week shorter than we had assumed in the 
Tealbook. Assuming that an agreement is reached in the next three weeks to keep the 
government open, we now think that the direct and indirect effects of the shutdown 
will subtract ¼ percentage point from annualized real GDP growth this quarter after 
having shaved half a tenth off last quarter’s growth; these cumulative reductions in 
growth, which are a touch smaller than we built into the Tealbook projection, should 
then be reversed in the second quarter. 
According to the BLS, the shutdown will have no effect on measured federal 
government employment from the establishment survey, though there will likely be 
some private-sector job losses among government contractors and other 
establishments affected by the shutdown. In the household survey, furloughed federal 
workers should be classified as being on temporary layoff—and, hence, as 
unemployed—and so we expect these workers will temporarily add a tenth or two to 
the January unemployment rate. 
Let me return to panel 1. Our medium-term forecast for real activity is a touch 
weaker than the one we showed you in December. This reflects our lower expected 
path for equity prices, as well as a judgmental adjustment we made that was intended 
to capture our view that heightened concerns about the economic outlook will turn 
out to be a larger drag on private spending than we had previously thought. Indeed, 
one question we have been wrestling with is whether the recent volatility in financial 
markets is signaling something about the prospects for the real economy that isn’t 
being captured by our nonfinancial indicators and thus warrants a larger downgrading 
of our baseline projection. In the end, we decided to put only a little weight on this 
interpretation of recent financial market movements in formulating our baseline 
forecast and illustrated the possibility of a more severe slowdown in the economy in 
an alternative simulation shown in the Risks and Uncertainty section of the Tealbook. 
Accordingly, the overall contour of the forecast for real activity is broadly similar 
to our previous projection. Specifically, we continue to expect that real output 
growth will outpace potential through 2019. However, as the ongoing removal of 
monetary policy accommodation and waning stimulus from fiscal policy act to rein in 
spending and production, real output is anticipated to rise at roughly the same rate as 
potential in 2020 and then to slow to a below-trend pace in the following year. As a 
result, the unemployment rate—the black line in panel 6—declines to 3.5 percent by 
the end of this year and remains at that level in 2020; by the end of 2021, the 
unemployment rate has edged up to 3.6 percent, which is still a percentage point 
below our estimate of its natural rate. 
Panel 7 on the next page of exhibits plots unemployment rates for various racial 
and ethnic groups. Over the past year—and in line with the broader improvement in 
labor market conditions—we have seen continued reductions in jobless rates for most 
groups. However, persistent differentials across groups remain a noticeable feature of 
the data. 
January 29–30, 2019
93 of 255
 
 
 
 
The panel at the bottom of the page provides a slightly longer perspective on how 
changes to our conditioning assumptions over the past several months have affected 
our real output projection. My point of comparison here is the September Tealbook 
forecast, as September was the month in which stock prices peaked. As indicated by 
line 1 of the table, since the September Tealbook we have revised down the projected 
level of real GDP at the end of the medium term by 35 basis points. This downward 
revision is more than accounted for by the revisions we made to the expected path of 
household wealth, line 2, which, in turn, mostly reflects the net declines in equity 
prices since September. Weaker foreign growth, which is included in the line labeled 
“other,” also contributes to the downward revision in our projection. As you can see 
on lines 3 and 4, these changes were partly offset by lower projected paths for interest 
rates, line 3, and the exchange value of the dollar, line 4. 
The remaining three panels of the exhibit summarize the inflation outlook. 
Broadly speaking, the recent price data have come in close to our expectations. Using 
our translation of the CPI and PPI, we estimate that total PCE prices—the black line 
in panel 8—rose 1.7 percent over the 12 months ending in December, held down by 
subdued rates of food and energy price inflation. We estimate that core PCE prices—
the red line—rose 1.9 percent over that period. It is true that, by our estimate, core 
PCE prices rose at a somewhat slower annualized pace of 1.6 percent over the past six 
months. However, we would caution against taking much signal from this six-month 
reading for two reasons. First, inflation is typically somewhat noisy year-to-year, let 
alone at higher frequencies. And second, we think that the PCE price data continue to 
suffer from the presence of residual seasonality, which tends to depress measured 
inflation in the latter portion of the year. Looking ahead, we anticipate that core 
inflation on a 12-month basis will remain around 1.9 percent through the middle of 
this year. We expect that total PCE inflation will dip further below the core measure 
in coming months—to as low as 1½ percent—as previous declines in oil prices feed 
through to consumer energy prices. 
Our medium-term inflation outlook—which is shown in panels 9 and 10—is not 
materially different from our December projection. In particular, we continue to 
expect that core inflation will edge up to 2 percent by the end of this year and then 
remain at that level over the rest of the medium term. Total PCE price inflation is 
expected to run a touch below core inflation this year and next, reflecting our 
projected path for consumer energy prices over that period; by 2021, we expect total 
PCE inflation will also be running at 2 percent. Steve will now continue our 
presentation. 
MR. KAMIN.
4 Thank you, Bill. I’ll be referring to the next handout titled 
“Material for Briefing on the International Outlook.” Like the rest of you, staff in the 
International Finance Division have been struggling with the apparent disconnect 
between the panic signals coming in recent months from financial markets and media, 
on the one hand, and the merely downbeat tone of the incoming data on foreign 
economies, on the other. Of course, this is not the first time that the markets and 
 
4 The materials used by Mr. Kamin are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). 
January 29–30, 2019
94 of 255
 
 
 
 
media have called for a global recession that never came. But, as in the story of the 
boy that cried wolf, I’d hate to be one of those townspeople who ignored the boy’s 
warnings when the beast finally came to call. And so, in an effort to assess the 
genuine threat to the sheep peacefully grazing in foreign meadows, I have been 
staring at the chart shown in your first exhibit for some time now. 
The blue line in the chart is our Recession Fear Index, which is based on counting 
media references to recession, the global economy, and uncertainty. As you can see, 
this has spiked up recently, consistent with all the chatter we’ve been hearing as of 
late, as well as with surveys of primary dealers and market participants conducted by 
the Open Market Desk. But it’s important to keep this upswing in perspective. First, 
fears of a global recession appear a bit lower than in the two previous episodes since 
the Global Financial Crisis: in 2011, when a heightening of the euro-area crisis 
coincided with worries that the United States would breach the debt ceiling, and in 
2016, when prospects of a China hard landing rocked world markets. 
Second, our model-based estimate of the probability of recession doesn’t show 
nearly as much enthusiasm for a coming global downturn as our fear index. The red 
line shows this estimated probability, derived from a probit model that takes into 
account both incoming data on economic activity as well as measures of stress in 
financial markets. As you can see, the index has risen only to about its unconditional 
historical level of around 20 percent and remains well below the nearly 60 percent 
mark reached during the 2016 China hard-landing scare. As you can see from 
previous episodes, it’s hardly unprecedented for recession fears to outrun the 
estimated probability of recession, but it does suggest that confidence in the global 
outlook is unusually fragile at present, something I will return to later in my 
presentation. 
Your second exhibit unpacks the estimated probability of recession abroad into its 
two main inputs: the Foreign Activity Index, which measures incoming data in 
economic activity, and the Excess Bond Premium, which measures risk sentiment in 
financial markets. Both measures are near their long-run averages—which is why the 
estimated probability of recession abroad is also close to its average level. This 
supports our relatively sanguine, but hardly upbeat, projection displayed in your next 
exhibit. 
Our baseline outlook is for continued expansion abroad, albeit at a lackluster 
pace. During the intermeeting period, plenty of economic indicators moved down 
further, especially for the euro area, as you can see. Accordingly, we’ve revised 
down our outlook yet again and now assess that aggregate foreign real growth will 
register only 2.3 percent this year, a little below potential, before picking up a little 
further out. 
This forecast, subdued as it is, is nevertheless more benign than the Cassandras of 
the financial pages have been voicing in recent weeks. It may just be that economists 
are bad at predicting recessions. Your next exhibit compares our Tealbook forecasts 
of aggregate foreign growth at different points in time, the red lines, to the actual path 
January 29–30, 2019
95 of 255
 
 
 
 
of foreign growth, the blue lines. As you can see, we didn’t predict either the 2001, 
or the 2008 recessions abroad, until we were already well into them. However, I 
prefer to think that the current disconnect arises because the financial markets and 
media have focused on the downside risks to the outlook—we view those risks as 
extremely important, but not quite as likely to materialize as the baseline scenario. 
Let’s start with Brexit. As indicated in your next exhibit, with Prime Minister 
May’s agreement with the EU having crashed and burned in Parliament a couple of 
weeks ago, the path to an orderly Brexit deal by the March 29 deadline is, to say the 
least, far from obvious. But only one of the other plausible outcomes to this 
convoluted and capricious process—the no-deal Brexit, depicted at the bottom 
right—would likely trigger an immediate recession in the United Kingdom and 
turbulence in global financial markets. The other outcomes, including the one we 
view as the most probable—an extension of the deadline, followed by eventual 
agreement on a Brexit plan sometime later this year—would prolong the uncertainty 
and weigh on the U.K. economy but would have only modest spillovers elsewhere. 
Similarly, as shown in the first panel of your next exhibit, there has been a surge 
in the media focus on a hard landing in China, and such an event would be hugely 
consequential for the global economy. Indeed, much has been made of the release of 
Chinese GDP data, with headlines proclaiming 2018 growth to be the slowest since 
1990. But to put this into perspective, China’s potential output growth has been on a 
declining trend for years, reflecting such structural factors as the aging of its 
population, the natural slowing of an economy in the process of technological 
convergence, and rebalancing toward domestic consumption. In addition, though 
2018 saw some cyclical slowing of the economy as well, much of that reflected the 
falloff in credit growth—shown in the right panel—associated with the government’s 
deleveraging campaign. With the authorities now easing up somewhat on that 
campaign and providing some fiscal stimulus as well, we expect credit and GDP 
growth to pick back up later this year before resuming its downward trend. To be 
sure, the risks of a financial crash remain, but we don’t view that as the most likely 
scenario. 
Your next exhibit addresses a third downside risk, trade policy. As you can see in 
the left panel, trade policy uncertainty, or TPU, has soared this year, whether 
measured by references in newspaper articles, the red line, or in corporate earnings 
calls, the black line. As we discussed at the December meeting, your own 
conversations with interlocutors pointed to trade policy as a key uncertainty facing 
U.S. corporations. But it’s been challenging to square these observations with the 
quantitative analysis. As shown on the right, even if all the trade actions signaled by 
the Administration were enacted, and if the knock-on effects of such actions on 
confidence and markets were also considered, our models—as well as those of 
outside analysts—suggest an effect on U.S. real GDP on the order of about 1 percent 
over the next couple of years. 
Furthermore, concerns about protectionism don’t seem well correlated with the 
parties most likely to be hurt by it. As seen in the left panel of your next exhibit, the 
January 29–30, 2019
96 of 255
 
 
 
 
black line charts the differential between the stock prices of U.S. companies with high 
foreign sales—who are most exposed to foreign retaliation against U.S. firms—and 
those of companies with low foreign sales. In principle, companies with high foreign 
sales should have been hit harder by the rise in TPU, but that doesn’t seem to have 
happened. Finally, the right panel focuses on references to trade policy uncertainty in 
corporate earnings calls, measured along the vertical axis, and compares them to the 
trade exposure of those corporate sectors, measured along the horizontal axis. 
Strangely, we see only a very loose correlation between companies’ trade exposure, 
as measured by their foreign sales, and their complaints about trade policy 
uncertainty. 
Now, it’s possible that the effects of trade barriers may be more subtle and diffuse 
than can be captured in this quantitative analysis. Alternatively, it may be that 
concerns about trade policy stem from deeper anxieties about a changing business 
environment where the rules of the game are in flux. Either way, financial markets 
and media seem to be placing considerable weight on the broad range of downside 
risks to the global outlook, and we are struggling to assess how much signal to take 
from them. But even if the underlying fundamentals are stronger than the market 
chatter would suggest, this should provide you with only limited comfort. With 
confidence and markets as jittery as they are at present, greater worries about 
recession could contribute to further stresses in financial markets, which, in turn, can 
raise the likelihood of those fears coming true. And even if those fears center on 
prospects abroad, they can spill over to the U.S. economy. 
To illustrate this point, I’d like to return to the 2016 China hard-landing scare. As 
indicated in your next exhibit, between mid-2015 and March 2016, U.S. asset prices 
gyrated along with global markets: equity prices fell, high-yield spreads widened, 
and the dollar rose. On the somewhat strenuous assumption that these movements in 
U.S. assets entirely reflected exogenous spillovers from worries about China and 
other foreign economies, we plugged these movements into our SIGMA DSGE 
model. As indicated in your next exhibit, compared with the evolution of the 
economy envisaged by your SEP projection in December 2015, the blue bars, the 
shocks to asset prices shown on the previous slide would, as indicated by the red bars, 
have lowered U.S. real GDP growth, reduced inflation, and led the federal funds 
rate—based on a Taylor rule—to rise only 50 basis points in 2016, compared to the 
100 basis points predicted in the SEP. This suggests that concern about financial 
spillovers associated with worries about foreign real GDP growth can explain most of 
your decision to raise rates only 25 basis points in 2016, shown by the green bar, 75 
basis points less than your December 2015 SEP median forecast. 
This is all to say that market and media worries about downside risks, even if 
seemingly ungrounded in economic fundamentals, may pose challenges for U.S. 
economic activity and require corresponding policy responses. Mike will now 
continue our discussion. 
January 29–30, 2019
97 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. KILEY.5 Thanks, Steve. I’ll be referring to the “Material for Briefing on 
Financial Stability Developments.” Since the Financial Stability Report, which was 
based on data through October, we’ve seen a material step-down in risk appetite. 
Staff from throughout the System are currently reviewing the full set of developments 
in asset valuations, nonfinancial borrowing, financial leverage, and maturity 
transformation, in preparation for the quantitative surveillance report we’ll circulate 
next month. Today I’ll review the main developments since October, and particularly 
focus on our assessment of valuation pressures, beginning with your first exhibit. 
Financial markets have seen increased volatility since the end of the summer and 
especially around the end of last year, as summarized in the upper-left panel. The 
step-up in volatility was most pronounced in equity markets, the blue line, but was 
also apparent in fixed-income markets, as summarized by the level of implied 
volatility in 10-year swaps. As you know, volatility in financial markets had been 
low, relative to historical norms, for much of 2017 and 2018, excluding the short-
lived jump early last year. From that perspective, the increase in volatility seen over 
much of last fall represented a return to historically more typical levels of volatility. 
However, the jump last month was outsized. Much of this increase may reflect the 
tendency for volatility to increase when risk sentiment deteriorates. At the same time, 
we are attuned to reports by market participants that trading conditions were strained 
during this period, and this may have further boosted volatility. 
As shown in the panel to the right, traditional liquidity metrics, such as the bid-
ask spread, the black line, provide some support for the notion that market liquidity 
was thin, although the level of such metrics does not appear especially unusual, 
conditional on the level of volatility observed. That said, some other metrics indicate 
greater strength. We’ll be focused on the degree to which markets may have become 
more fragile in response to changes in technology, investor composition, 
intermediaries’ business models, and regulation. At this point, we would not point to 
any one factor—such as an increased role for high-frequency trading, or algorithmic 
strategies—as a clear driver and see the shift in risk sentiment as likely an important 
factor, as is normally the case. 
Now, that description refers much to the developments in December. Maybe I 
could take an opportunity to take the 50,000-foot perspective. I’m going to follow up 
on the exchange between President Kaplan and Lorie earlier this morning. Certainly, 
we have seen an evolution in the way in which market liquidity is provided over the 
past decade, and we see that as sort of qualitative and quantitative indicators. For 
example, a qualitative story includes changes in the way that dealers like to provide 
liquidity. A traditional model would be taking securities into inventory to facilitate 
trades. For a variety of reasons, related potentially to technology and regulation, 
there’s been an increase in dealers’ desire to sort of find matched pairs of transactions 
and facilitate trades by matching buyers and sellers and not taking securities into 
inventory. Complementing that, we’ve seen changes over time—trends like changes 
in the size of transactions and things. We’ve obviously been looking at this over time 
 
5 The materials used by Mr. Kiley are appended to this transcript (appendix 5). 
January 29–30, 2019
98 of 255
 
 
 
 
and I would say our broad view, over the past several years, has been that there’s no 
one clear driver, market liquidity has been good, and it’s not clear that these 
evolutions have been indicative of market fragility. Of course, the data continue to 
accumulate, and what we do when we get more data is that we decide whether we 
need to change our mind. One of the priorities for us this year that emerged when we 
were talking last week about our agenda for financial stability, is thinking about 
whether resilient institutions are being accompanied by changes in the fragility in 
markets. We’ll be reassessing the evidence on that topic. 
Now let’s return to your regularly scheduled programming and step back from 
December’s volatility. Changes in asset prices show clear cooling in valuations in 
equity and corporate debt markets. As shown in the middle-left panel, a staff measure 
of the equity risk premium—that is, the extra compensation investors demand to hold 
equities relative to Treasury securities—has jumped above the range that has 
prevailed over the past two years. 
Spreads on corporate bonds, shown on the right, have similarly moved up 
considerably. Our overall assessment of valuation pressures casts a wide net, looking 
across equity, corporate debt, residential real estate, commercial real estate, and other 
markets. We have not yet seen much sign of cooling in commercial real estate, which 
has shown valuation pressures over the past few years. Somewhat in contrast, 
residential house prices appear to be experiencing pressures in only some regions, and 
national house prices appear to have remained only modestly above their long-run 
relationship with rents. As we put things together, we view the cooling in equity and 
corporate debt markets as signaling a sufficient pullback in risk appetite to downgrade 
our assessment of overall valuation pressures from “elevated”—where they have been 
since mid-2017—to “notable,” one notch below “elevated” on our ratings scale. 
The ebbing of risk appetite in the corporate debt market was also clearly evident 
in the leveraged lending market. As shown in the bottom-left panel, spreads on 
lower-rated newly issued leveraged loans blew out last month; we also saw a sizable 
decline in the price of loans in the secondary market and a slowing in issuance of new 
loans, both not shown. At the same time, market participants and available data 
indicate that deals were completed as pricing flexed in a direction more favorable to 
lenders to clear the market. Moreover, banks did not face notable pipeline pressures 
despite market conditions, although some of this favorable outcome may have 
reflected the fact that December is a seasonal low point for deals. 
As a final note related to leveraged lending, as shown in the panel to the right, 
returns on bank loan mutual funds—funds that invest in leveraged loans—turned 
sharply negative late last year, the blue line, and December witnessed the largest 
outflows from such funds since 2011, the red bars. In our regular assessments and 
elsewhere, we have repeatedly emphasized that the ability of investors to redeem 
shares of such funds on a daily basis could place strains on leveraged lending markets 
given the limited trading liquidity in the secondary market for loans. While we 
cannot exclude some effect of fund redemptions in the decline in secondary market 
January 29–30, 2019
99 of 255
 
 
 
 
prices, reports we’ve received suggest that redemptions proceeded in an orderly 
manner, as CLO managers stepped in to purchase loans when secondary prices fell. 
Your next exhibit briefly summarizes developments outside valuations. As 
shown in the first panel, despite slowing in the high-yield bond and leveraged lending 
markets late last year, the increase in the sum of these types of debt—so-called risky 
debt—over 2018, was the largest since 2015. Partly as a result, business debt 
outstanding—the red line on the right—sits near historical highs relative to GDP. We 
see the elevated level of corporate debt as likely to imply some amplification of 
adverse shocks through the business sector and will provide a set of memos on this 
topic as part of the February quantitative surveillance package. In contrast, we judge 
the risks associated with household-sector debt as moderate, partly reflecting the 
sizable deleveraging that has occurred in this sector over the past decade, the blue 
line. 
We continue to see risks associated with financial leverage as low, owing 
importantly to the substantial decline in leverage in the banking sector, apparent in 
the increase in common equity relative to assets, shown in the middle-left panel. As 
we have emphasized previously, financial leverage also appears moderate or low 
elsewhere in the financial system, including at insurance companies and broker-
dealers. One sector in which leverage increased during the risk-on period of 2017 
was hedge funds, as shown to the right. It appears that net leverage at hedge funds 
ebbed over 2018, perhaps owing to the increase in volatility and shift in risk 
sentiment. That said, the indicator of leverage shown is only a partial view of 
leverage within the hedge fund sector, and more comprehensive data are available 
only through early 2018. 
We also continue to see vulnerabilities related to maturity transformation as low. 
Important contributors to this assessment are the shift away from wholesale funding 
at the large banks, shown in the bottom-left panel, and the reduction in assets under 
management at the prime money market funds. We have seen some increase in assets 
under management at money market funds since 2017, shown to the left, reportedly 
reflecting attractive yields relative to alternatives such as bank deposits. This 
development points to the possibility that banks may need to compete more 
aggressively to retain deposits. That said, the shift has been modest—while assets at 
prime money funds have increased more than $100 billion since 2017, most of this 
increase has occurred in retail funds, which appeared much less prone to runs than 
institutional funds during the crisis. And this increase is a small fraction of the more 
than $1 trillion decline in assets under management in prime funds following the SEC 
reforms in 2016. And that concludes our set of remarks. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Questions now for our briefers? President 
Kashkari. 
January 29–30, 2019
100 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Steve, what I recall from the China 
slowdown in 2016 was that there was a lot of attention on their foreign exchange reserves. They 
had been accumulating reserves for about a decade. It seemed like there was a pretty sharp 
reversal, and there was concern that they might burn through their massive reserves. Is there any 
such focus today? Do you know what’s happening to China’s reserves? Is that something we 
should be paying attention to? 
MR. KAMIN. We certainly do pay attention to it, and that is an important difference 
between now and the 2016 scare. The 2016 scare was a combination of worries that the 
economy was going into recession, and that there could be a very large Chinese devaluation—
both prompted, in principle, by concerns by the Chinese authorities that their economy was 
slowing down, and also by strong capital outflows at the time. In fact, a lot of the fears were 
triggered by some rather poorly handled, very small devaluations by the Chinese at that time. 
More recently, Chinese reserves have been broadly stable—a little bit of reserve 
drawdown within the past quarter or two but, broadly speaking, pretty stable. And net capital 
flows into and out of the country have been in the neighborhood of zero for the past few quarters. 
So that’s a big difference, and that’s at least one reason why the current worries about China, 
pronounced as they are, are not as bad as they could be. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Mike, just a question. So on the statistic about corporate debt to GDP 
being at historically high levels, I also hear the argument that the corporate sector relative to 
GDP is also at historically high levels, so the actual leverage of the sector, as a percentage of 
GDP, is not particularly hot. So how should I think about that? Is there still a financial stability 
January 29–30, 2019
101 of 255
 
 
 
 
risk, even if the corporate sector itself doesn’t have higher leverage, if it is a higher percentage of 
GDP, or how should we be thinking about that? Or is that true? Is that a factoid? Is it a fact? 
MR. KILEY. I think the factoid is true that the business sector is a larger portion of GDP 
today than at various points in the past--and, in particular, the corporate sector—both reflecting 
the fact that the corporate sector is a larger share of the business sector. We still view this as a 
vulnerability for a couple of reasons. One, the corporate sector is still somewhat highly 
leveraged. If we look at its debt relative to its assets, it’s still high, especially for risky firms. 
Now, we don’t want to go crazy. There are good reasons why there is more debt in the business 
sector—interest rates are low, the sector is larger. I think a secondary consideration, in the back 
of our mind, is that while the business sector is a larger portion of GDP, and that suggests that 
solely looking at its debt relative to overall GDP could be somewhat misleading for the risk in 
the business sector, it’s also important to remember that the business sector is a larger part of 
GDP. So if the business sector comes under strain, it has a larger effect on GDP because it’s a 
larger part. So it’s a mixed bag. There’s a good element of it being larger and an element where, 
okay, if there are strains in that sector, those strains have, just arithmetically, a larger effects on 
GDP. 
So I think when we put that all together, we want to be sure we’re attuned and focused on 
this. I think it’s pretty clear if you look at the picture. We’re not saying that we think the 
business sector looks like the household sector a decade ago. The picture shows that really 
clearly. But we don’t want to be saying everything is hunky-dory either. 
MR. QUARLES. Fair enough. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Other questions? President Bullard. 
January 29–30, 2019
102 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I have a question for Steve Kamin. 
This deck talks about trade policy and it talks about China, but it doesn’t talk about China and 
trade policy. Do you think trade policy uncertainty is a good reason to think that maybe the 
Chinese economy is weaker than otherwise? And if the trade war drags on for some length of 
time, could this be detrimental to Chinese growth prospects? 
MR. KAMIN. I think the answer to the last question is certainly yes. But just, to expand 
on that: Again, if you look at the concrete quantifiable kind of like effects of our trade policy on 
China, they seem to be pretty small so far. We’re putting the effect of measures taken so far to 
be in the neighborhood of ⅓ percent of GDP in terms of the negative effect on China. And then 
if we ended up following through with the additional measures that have been discussed, but not 
yet implemented—which is raising tariff rates on $180 billion of imports from China that we 
already have started to tariff, and adding tariffs on another $200 billion or so—then we think the 
effect of that on China could be about ¾ percent of GDP, stretched probably over a couple of 
years. That’s obviously not a negligible amount—that’s actually fairly material in the context of 
their falling growth—but it’s something that would be broadly manageable. 
This does not take into account, however, the fact that an environment in which China’s 
exports face increasing limitations, particularly with regard to the major trading partners, could 
lead to a lot of slowdown in investment in China, and a lot of diminishing of sentiment in 
financial markets. So again, the quantifiable effects are not so large. But, taking into account a 
lot of likely possible repercussions, they could be quite significant. 
MR. BULLARD. But just following up, I’m looking at slide 11 here. This seems like 
saying that not that much happened in China in 2016, but nevertheless the repercussions for the 
January 29–30, 2019
103 of 255
 
 
 
 
deliberations around this table might be pretty substantial, because these numbers are actually 
fairly large. 
MR. KAMIN. Right. 
MR. BULLARD. From the perspective of policymaking. 
MR. KAMIN. In the event Chinese growth had actually already slowed significantly in 
the last part of 2015 and actually started to pick up later in 2016. So the hard landing that a lot of 
people were worried about, did not take place, but the knock-on effects on financial markets did 
take place, and that was something that led to a tightening in U.S. and other financial conditions. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Any other questions? [No response] If not, we’ll go to our 
first set of comments on financial stability beginning with President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Market downdrafts such as we saw at the 
end of the year can provide insight into potential financial stability problems that may deserve 
more attention. Two fault lines that were partially exposed are worth mentioning. 
The first is the freeze-up of transactions that occurred in the highly levered lending and 
high-yield bond markets. Although amid heightened financial market volatility, it is noteworthy 
that this freeze occurred during a quarter in which growth is likely to be well above potential, the 
unemployment rate is low by historical standards, monetary and fiscal policies are 
accommodative, and delinquency rates are quite low. The market absorbed the freeze largely 
because of this healthy economic backdrop. But even so, the ability to roll over financing was 
somewhat impaired. The dynamic could be much more troubling in a weaker economic 
environment in which there were more significant losses—for example, arising from an 
unexpected increase in defaults—which could prompt even larger redemptions from leveraged 
January 29–30, 2019
104 of 255
 
 
 
 
loan mutual funds than observed in Q4 of 2018. Simulating what would happen in an extensive 
freeze but with less positive underlying economic conditions could provide us some insight into 
how much risk is being generated by allowing corporate leverage to become so large. Of course, 
we should model not only what happens to our banks, but also the effect that cascading problems 
at firms could cause for the economy overall. 
The second area of concern is excessive confidence in the protection afforded by healthy 
bank financial ratios. For the past several years, I’ve been concerned about the financial stability 
risks generated by undercapitalized and underperforming European banks that could seriously 
affect the euro area but would also pose a serious complication for the United States. 
As frequently occurs during market downturns, attention increasingly turns to those 
European banks that are underperforming. Most notable is one of the largest globally important 
German banks. Its ratios look great. Here, tier 1 common equity is currently 14 percent, and its 
LCR is 148 percent. Over the past five years, its stock price has fallen 75 percent, and its CDS 
spread has more than doubled. Press reports indicate that capital and liquidity ratios that are well 
above minimums are providing little comfort. Financial press reports are highlighting merger 
proposals, and counterparties have been reported to be reducing exposures. That this bank is 
under such pressure, once again, even though its capital and liquidity ratios are high, even by our 
standards, should warn us against complacency following the significant post-crisis progress 
we’ve made in strengthening our own banks’ capital and liquidity requirements. 
We should question whether our supposed gold plating of financial ratios on systemically 
important financial institutions is really sufficient to ensure financial stability in times of 
economic stress. Furthermore, gold plating should be thought of not only in terms of calibrating 
minimum requirements on specific ratios, but also in terms of ensuring that the system of 
January 29–30, 2019
105 of 255
 
 
 
 
regulatory requirements and supervisory tools as a whole is truly sufficient to protect the 
financial system and the broader economy against the range of problems that institutions may 
face in a crisis. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. Although bond spreads are now near the center of their 
historical range, compared with being well below it previously, risky corporate debt remains at 
historically high levels. After drying up in December, the pace of risky debt issuance appears to 
have picked up again in recent weeks. That run-up in corporate debt has brought the ratio of 
debt to assets for speculative-grade and unrated firms to its highest level in two decades. An 
analysis of detailed balance sheet information indicates that it’s the firms that have high 
leverage, high interest expense ratios, and low earnings and cash holdings that have been 
increasing their debt loads the most. 
For corporate bonds, credit quality has deteriorated within the investment-grade segment, 
and market participants are very focused on the share of bonds rated at the lowest investment-
grade level, which has reached near-record levels at about $2¼ trillion overall. This is 
particularly notable because these bonds are vulnerable to downgrades in the face of negative 
shocks, because total assets under management in bond mutual funds have more than doubled in 
the past decades, and because these funds now hold about one-tenth of the overall corporate bond 
market. Forced sales could lead to liquidity dislocations. 
Further down the credit quality ladder, leveraged lending grew about 12 percent over the 
past year, and there too we saw notable deterioration of underwriting standards. Estimates of the 
amounts outstanding are at around $1 trillion, and commitments were reported at about 
$2 trillion. Covenant-lite transactions now represent 80 percent of that market, up from less than 
January 29–30, 2019
106 of 255
 
 
 
 
30 percent a decade ago when they were associated with primarily stronger borrowers. And 
deals increasingly involve features that increase opacity and risk. 
The most recent shared national credit report assesses that the number of loans identified 
as “classified” or “special mention” is elevated compared to prior economic cycles. Within this 
group, 73 percent of special mention loans, 87 percent of substandard loans, 45 percent of 
doubtful commitments, and 76 percent of losses, are concentrated in leveraged loan transactions. 
For classified and special mention loans, although the largest share is held by nonbank investors, 
the share held by U.S. banks is nonnegligible at more than 20 percent. 
While those direct exposures of the banking system in the form of loan portfolios and 
warehousing exposures are closely tracked, there are also indirect exposures, including through 
bank investments and CLOs that they hold on their balance sheets. In addition, the mutual funds 
that have built up large exposures to this risky debt have liquidity mismatches that could 
contribute to market dislocations, and we saw, as Mike Kiley mentioned, that bank loan funds 
saw the largest outflows since 2011 in December. 
Against this background, we need to continue examining whether we consider supervised 
financial institutions sufficiently capitalized. With the economy still solid and recent bank 
earnings strong, it’s a good time for banks to be safeguarding their capital rather than racing to 
return earnings to shareholders. Recent history suggests the business cycle and the financial 
cycle are increasingly intertwined. The past two expansions actually ended because of financial 
imbalances, and junk bonds played a key role in the recession of the early 1990s. Sound 
macroprudential policy should seek to counteract the inherent cyclicality of market-based capital. 
With risks mounting, if banks are to maintain the same degree of resilience, they actually need to 
have a higher ratio of capital to assets. Over the past few years, instead of building capital 
January 29–30, 2019
107 of 255
 
 
 
 
buffers, the amount of regulatory capital, relative to both risk-weighted assets and total assets, 
flatlined. For G-SIBs, the ratio of common equity to risk-weighted assets actually moved down 
over the past two years. 
Along with several others around this table, I recently participated in a tabletop exercise 
developed by the COP—the Committee on Financial Stability, under President Mester’s 
leadership. The strongest “takeaway” I saw flowing from that exercise was how valuable it is to 
have a tool that can be released as an economic downturn starts. It provides a valuable signaling 
mechanism, separate from monetary policy, that can help to reinforce accommodative 
communications at a time when the Federal Reserve seeks to buffer the economy and lending 
from shocks. U.K. authorities echo that conclusion. 
For those reasons, it seems wise to ask banks to retain a very small buffer of 
countercyclical capital over the course of the next year. This would level up the playing field so 
that banks would feel less competitive pressure to pay out all of their earnings. This buffer could 
be released if the economy weakened to encourage banks to keep the credit pipes open when 
most needed. And finally, using tools such as the CCyB to address these financial risks allows 
monetary policy to focus squarely on its dual-mandate goals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the Grinch tried very hard to stop 
Christmas from coming last year, and during the market turmoil in December we once again 
heard from market participants that lack of liquidity contributed to the volatility, and that some 
of our regulatory safeguards exacerbated those liquidity pressures. In the end, however, Cindy 
Lou Who prevailed once again, and as we sit here a month later, things appear to have stabilized. 
January 29–30, 2019
108 of 255
 
 
 
 
As equity markets have reversed some of their fourth-quarter losses, corporate debt issuance has 
resumed, and volatility has come back to normal levels. 
So what lessons can one reflect on as a result of that episode that relate to the stability of 
our post-crisis financial system? The first, rather obvious one, is that when asset prices reflect a 
great deal of optimism, they can get bumpy as investors become nervous or worried that other 
investors are becoming nervous, or worry that other investors are worrying that other investors 
may become nervous. And, with the benefit of hindsight, it now looks like investor appetite for 
risk peaked in late summer of last year, and, after a series of dramatic swings, it has clearly eased 
significantly. 
Concern apparently centered on the corporate sector in equity markets. As Mike noted in 
his presentation, the staff’s estimate of the equity risk premium is notably higher than it was in 
September. Spreads on risky corporate debt widened. Issuance of high-yield bonds and 
leveraged loans was almost nonexistent in December through early January. Those markets 
started functioning again in recent weeks, but spreads on both bonds and loans remain much 
higher than their lows last year. So on balance, the easing and risk appetite has left asset prices 
less vulnerable to a big downward shock and reduced the pressures that were generating outsized 
volumes of risky corporate debt. I think insofar as that goes, that is a positive development with 
respect to stability, whatever the macroeconomic implications of it may be, and I think we 
should still obviously be watching developments in commercial property markets where we 
haven’t seen a major retrenchment. 
A second lesson to reflect on is the fragility of market liquidity. Lorie, in her 
presentation, showed that the depth of the Treasury securities market declined in December. 
January 29–30, 2019
109 of 255
 
 
 
 
Equity markets showed a similar pattern. Those declines clearly exacerbated the volatility that 
we saw. 
There are a number of factors operating there. The shift to electronic execution of trades 
means that algorithms have replaced the old floor specialists—the point that President Kaplan 
has been making—and whatever their faults, specialists guaranteed that a human would gut-
check prices. Passive or quantitative investment strategies are more popular now—that 
encourages herding. And reports are that a number of dealers constrained financing to clients in 
December, again perhaps exacerbated by regulatory safeguards. So I completely agree with 
President Kaplan that this is an area in which we need to continue to dig, in which we need to 
understand more of what is driving these liquidity pressures that I think are clearly there. And no 
doubt we’ll gain additional insight in the coming weeks and months. 
We also learned, I think, that the run risk in bond and loan mutual funds may not be as 
great as we feared. Obviously, mutual funds holding high-yield bonds and leveraged loans offer 
daily redemption, even though it can take a lot longer than that in order to sell the bonds and 
loans that are in the portfolio. That can create an incentive to be the first out the door when 
turbulence hits. Yet in December turbulence certainly hit, but as Mike showed in his briefing, 
while mutual funds that invest primarily in leveraged loans experienced record outflows—about 
10 percent of their total assets under management—we didn’t get any reports of a fund 
experiencing severe distress. We didn’t see a repeat of the episode in late 2015 when a lone 
mutual fund suspended redemptions. So, to me, this suggests that the run dynamic may be 
substantially less among longer-term mutual funds than it is, for example, among money market 
funds, because that was a reasonable shock in December that they seemed to handle fairly well. 
January 29–30, 2019
110 of 255
 
 
 
 
On corporate debt, I continue to believe we should closely monitor vulnerabilities that are 
created by the high level of corporate debt, but I see those vulnerabilities as more salient for our 
discussion of the risks and uncertainty associated with the economic outlook rather than financial 
stability implications. In particular, large U.S. banks remain well capitalized against their direct 
and indirect exposures to corporate debt, and in furtherance of that, on February 4 we’ll be 
releasing the macroeconomic scenarios and the global market shock for the 2019 stress tests and 
comprehensive capital analysis and review (CCAR). As described in our framework, those 
scenarios will feature a larger increase in the unemployment rate than last year and an associated 
larger decline in economic activity, along with the usual severe decline in business credit 
conditions, and that combination of factors should serve to severely stress the corporate loans 
and collateralized loan obligation (CLO) securities that are held on the books of the banks. 
In closing, then, it appears that our financial markets have now proved quite resilient to 
the types of moderate and reasonably short-lived shocks to risk sentiment that we experienced in 
the fourth quarter, though the potential strains in liquidity of various markets, I think, are 
something that we need to study further. And it’s also important to keep in mind that these 
market dynamics played out against a fundamentally sound economic outlook. We’re still 
awaiting the test of the resilience of financial markets to these vulnerabilities in a true downturn, 
rather than a standard market correction, though of course we also continue to hope that such a 
test will be indefinitely postponed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thanks. And now we’ll move to the economic go-round, and 
we’ll begin with President Bullard. 
January 29–30, 2019
111 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have several comments here. I’ll talk a 
little bit about broad comments on the outlook, a little bit about whether expansions die of old 
age, a little bit about the Tealbook, and then a little bit about market-based inflation expectations. 
District contacts continue to say that 2018 was either a good year or a very good year, but 
they view 2019 in a more negative light. They see a slowdown in their business. Some firms are 
stress-testing against a possible recession in 2019 or 2020. Some of you saw the chief financial 
officer (CFO) survey from late last year that had 75 percent of large companies’ CFOs predicting 
recession by the end of 2020. I think that is a common view, as that survey would indicate, in 
the business community and certainly among our business contacts. 
Inflation remains low, and inflation expectations suggest that the Committee will actually 
miss its inflation target to the low side for the eighth year in a row in 2019. The five-year 
market-based inflation compensation is 1.8 percent today. As reported earlier in this meeting, if 
you subtract three-tenths off that, to translate from CPI to PCE inflation, you get only 1.5 percent 
interpreted as straight inflation expectation. That would say that the Committee will miss its 
target over the next five years actually, not just in 2019. I do think that the policy being 
contemplated at this meeting may help to address this problem. One thing I like about market-
based inflation expectations is they do react to market data, and they do react to policy 
announcements, and you can grasp some of the effect of the policy announcement by watching 
these movements. 
The real economy looks set to grow slower in 2019 versus 2018, which is almost 
universally predicted. At this point, it’s possible Q1 could be particularly weak maybe, 
depending on how the shutdown scenarios work out. If that happens, it may behoove the 
January 29–30, 2019
112 of 255
 
 
 
 
Committee to wait and see whether the second quarter bounces back, as it has in previous years, 
or whether the economy slows down further as we go through the year. 
U.S. labor markets continue to perform well, but this strikes me as a backward-looking 
indicator at this juncture. The time has probably passed when we can simply cite the idea that 
labor markets are performing well as a reasonable indicator about what will happen over the next 
12 to 18 months. Also, no matter how tight you think labor markets are, the feedback to inflation 
is exceptionally weak. The Phillips curve is exceptionally flat. Some estimates would put the 
ratio at 10–1, so you would need—for instance, in the chart we just saw, the unemployment rate 
would fall 40 basis points. If the ratio is 10–1, that would cause 4 basis points of inflation, which 
is something we can’t really measure in our inflation sophistication right now. 
We have already normalized substantially more than 200 basis points on the policy rate, 
with real GDP growth naturally slowing anyway. Now may be a good time to see how the 
economy reacts to our past normalization steps. 
On the question of whether expansions die of old age, during our briefing process this 
round we did a deep dive on this issue. The standard response of all of us, I think, is to say 
expansions do not die of old age, and I think the Chair and the former Chairs for sure, have used 
this piece of rhetoric. Our examination of the literature is that the evidence is far more mixed 
than this one piece of rhetoric would suggest. The papers have actually come out with a variety 
of results on this question about duration-dependence of expansions. So I think the Committee 
may wish to be more careful about this. It certainly made me want to be more careful about this 
talk on Wall Street, or around this table, about “late-stage expansion” or “late in the expansion” 
or “late in the business cycle,” might have more relevance than you think it does. 
January 29–30, 2019
113 of 255
 
 
 
 
In a bit of economics humor, the paper by Diebold and Rudebusch, which was published 
in 1990 on this topic, was written in the late ’80s, when people were talking about, how long can 
the ’80s expansion go on. And they came to the conclusion in that paper that expansions do not 
die of old age. And then they published the paper in 1990 pretty much simultaneously with the 
beginning of the recession. So the expansion eventually did die of old age, but not until they had 
published the paper. So it was a masterful piece of research. [Laughter.] 
I have some comments on the Tealbook. The charts on page 5, which show how the 
forecast has evolved over the past six months, I think, gave a good picture of a September time 
frame when we were thinking 3 percent growth in the fourth quarter, 3 percent growth in the first 
quarter—a very robust winter outlook. And it moderated significantly since that time, so I think 
that does a good job of bringing in the nature of the shock that hit us and financial markets 
during the past six months or so. 
The Tealbook remains outside the Blue Chip top 10 for both short- and long-term 
nominal interest rates. The Tealbook continues to have an inverted yield curve at the end of 
2020—a substantially inverted Treasury yield curve. This is not something that has ever 
happened historically in the United States. I’m not quite sure how we can get to that conclusion, 
given the preponderance of evidence in the postwar U.S. data. Just to put some numbers on this, 
the Tealbook is 150 basis points above the Blue Chip median on short-term rates during the 
forecast horizon. So I think this is a case in which the model has outlived its usefulness and 
probably needs some fixing. You’re talking about a forecast community in the Blue Chip that 
does this for a living and is giving substantially different predictions on rates, but not on other 
variables. They are saying you can achieve all of the outcomes on all of the other variables, 
basically the same as what the Tealbook has, except for rates, which have to be dramatically 
January 29–30, 2019
114 of 255
 
 
 
 
different according to the Tealbook versus what the rest of the forecast community is saying. So 
I think we should ask, and demand, that this be reconciled one way or another. And I’d like to 
see that so that we get a better basis for the discussions around this table here. 
The Tealbook page 54 has five-year TIPS-based inflation compensation. It fell about 
50 basis points from September through the end of 2018. It did rebound on more dovish rhetoric 
from the Fed in the early part of this year. I read this as markets interpreting the Committee as 
overly hawkish in late 2018. 
There is a box on longer-term inflation compensation, pages 60 and 61 of the Tealbook. 
The box argues that observed declines in TIPS-based inflation compensation are due to factors 
other than declining inflation expectations themselves. As you see when you read the box, they 
cite two things. They cite survey evidence, and they cite a staff term structure model. I would 
say that the survey evidence, if you look at it, has long been badly biased to the upside and has 
other strange features that make me not want to trust the survey evidence nearly as much as it’s 
trusted around this table. So the surveys are badly biased. What you would have to do is come 
back to me and explain how households could have such bias in their inflation forecasts and still 
make sensible household decisions and not learn over time that their forecasts were wrong. 
On the term structure model, it’s well known that these types of models are notoriously 
sensitive to underlying assumptions. You can cut up the data in a variety of ways. You will get 
different results. So instead of trying to always argue that we want to ignore the TIPS-based 
compensation, I think we should embrace it and take what signal we can from it. I think it’s 
simpler to argue that the survey-based measures of inflation expectations are biased, and 
insensitive to market developments, because these agents do not generally have skin in the game 
directly in terms of forecasting inflation, and that market-based measures of inflation 
January 29–30, 2019
115 of 255
 
 
 
 
compensation reflect market predictions based on all available information. In these markets, 
any misreading of inflation fundamentals represents an investment opportunity for someone who 
is participating in these markets. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Since our previous meeting, uncertainty 
about many events seems to be on the rise. Fortunately, one type of uncertainty has 
disappeared—the New England Patriots will be in the Super Bowl. [Laughter] 
MR. HARKER. Sorry we can’t disagree! 
MR. ROSENGREN. Unlike football, however, the economic uncertainty we are facing 
does not look like it will be resolved by next Sunday. Concerns about a global slowdown, with 
both China and Europe showing some clear signs of stress, are unlikely to be resolved anytime 
soon. Domestically, we have self-inflicted uncertainty resulting from trade policy and a 
previously shutdown government that is operating now on short-term funding. Finally, to 
compound the heightened uncertainty and financial volatility, we are driving the economy 
partially blind, with a variety of key economic data delayed by the shutdown. The economic 
data, before the shutdown, reflected continued strong underlying growth. The payroll 
employment data we received for December showed continued strength in labor markets. But 
since that time, there have been enough troubling data that it may take some time before our 
confidence in the underlying strength of the economy is restored. 
Certainly, the most striking developments over the past month occurred in the capital 
markets. The sharp declines in stock prices right before Christmas caught everyone’s attention. 
Research by my staff examined possible determinants of these stock price movements using a 
composite uncertainty index, updated earnings expectations, and changes in discount rates. 
January 29–30, 2019
116 of 255
 
 
 
 
Their findings are supportive of the view that an increase in uncertainty, rather than lower 
earnings expectations or higher discount rates, is mostly responsible for the stock price declines 
we have seen recently. 
However their work also highlights that increases in uncertainty that generate declines in 
stock prices often are not associated with significant movements in real variables. Not 
surprisingly, these stock price declines did not occur in isolation. They were accompanied by 
very substantial declines in the 10-year Treasury rate, widening credit spreads, and declining oil 
prices. These correlated movements across markets give me some pause. I usually take more 
signal from bond markets than stock markets, but this combination across markets is what one 
would expect to see were financial market participants seeing signs of a noticeable economic 
slowdown. 
The information on such variables for future economic performance can be approximated 
by recession probability models, and my staff and many others have run an array of such models 
and, not surprisingly, produced results that are quite consistent with the results reported in the 
Tealbook. That said, while these models might indicate potential risks, it seems at least as likely 
to me that markets may be unduly sensitive to some of the current uncertainties, and my best 
guess remains that the economy will continue to grow somewhat above potential. While this 
would reflect a step-down in real GDP growth from last year, it would still be enough for growth 
to further tighten labor markets. This expectation is quite consistent with the broad contours of 
the Tealbook forecast and most private-sector forecasts, such as the January Blue Chip forecast, 
which expects 2.2 percent growth this year. 
In the absence of the financial market movements and other sources of risk we have 
experienced over most of the intermeeting period, I probably would have seen little reason to 
January 29–30, 2019
117 of 255
 
 
 
 
change course from my previous summary of economic projections (SEP) forecast. However, 
with heightened financial market volatility, potential weakness emanating from abroad and from 
self-inflicted wounds at home, and data reporting delayed, monetary policy flexibility and 
patience does seem warranted. However, if I am right that most of this is a financial market 
overreaction, I can easily imagine the need for further tightening later this year when at least 
some of the uncertainties are likely to be resolved. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The hard data that we do have at present 
indicate that the economy appears to have entered 2019 with good momentum. And in terms of 
the economic outlook, an expectation of solid growth, in line with the SEP numbers in 
December, should remain the baseline for 2019. I’ll talk in a moment about risks to that 
baseline. 
As exemplified by the very strong December 2018 employment report, the labor market 
remains healthy and ended the year on a very strong note, with the unemployment rate near the 
lowest level in 50 years and, importantly, average monthly job gains well outpacing the increase 
needed to provide employment to new entrants. The median estimate of u* has been falling for 
several years. I won’t predict that that will continue, but certainly the labor market is on our 
radar screens. 
In a welcome development, nominal wage growth continues to pick up, with most 
measures now running around 3 percent—and those are obviously in line with gains in 
productivity and our inflation objective—and are consistent with a labor market that is operating 
in the vicinity of full employment. They are not, I believe, at present a source of upward cost-
push pressure on price inflation. 
January 29–30, 2019
118 of 255
 
 
 
 
We talk in these meetings about the labor supply. I think one of the pleasant surprises in 
the December employment report was the increase in labor force participation, up four-tenths for 
the year, and it reminded us that the unemployment rate can fall either in response to 
participation or on the employment side, and so that is also something to remember. 
Price stability, of course, is the other leg of our dual mandate, and PCE inflation over the 
past 12 months has been running close to our 2 percent objective. The consensus forecast of core 
PCE in 2019 is running at around 2 percent, and obviously we saw a similar projection from the 
staff. That said, and not withstanding strong economic growth and low unemployment, as was 
pointed out, inflation has surprised on the downside in the last six months of 2018. Although 
this may be due in part to residual seasonality, it’s not yet clear, to me, that PCE inflation has 
moved back to 2 percent on a sustainable basis. Perhaps more important, it’s not clear, to me, 
that PCE inflation expectations are well anchored at 2 percent, although I do think they are well 
anchored. And because expectations of future inflation are an important determinant of actual 
inflation, central banks are as much in the business of anchoring inflation expectations as of 
managing actual inflation. 
To pick up on something President Bullard said, long-run inflation expectations, based 
upon a straight reading of inflation indexed securities, have drifted down, although after term 
premium and liquidity adjustments they may be consistent with CPI inflation of around 
2.1 percent, according to staff estimates. But again, as President Bullard reminded us, 
historically PCE inflation is lower than CPI inflation by three-tenths, and if this were to continue, 
it would suggest that financial markets are expecting PCE inflation of 1.8 percent over the next 5 
years. Now, for what it’s worth—I looked it up—the average rate of headline PCE inflation for 
the past 25 years is 1.8 percent. And 1.8 percent, as it turns out, is equal to the Board staff 
January 29–30, 2019
119 of 255
 
 
 
 
estimate of underlying inflation, which they define as the level consistent with zero slack and 
stable inflation expectations. 
Michigan surveys have been drifting down recently and are bouncing around the lowest 
levels that we’ve seen historically. The one bright spot on this topic is that the Survey of 
Professional Forecasters very reliably every month says long-run PCE inflation is 2 percent. So 
that’s helpful. So while the evidence is not clear cut, I believe that PCE inflation expectations 
likely are well anchored but appear to be well anchored somewhat below 2 percent. To me, this 
suggests yet another reason to be especially patient and data dependent this year, because, in 
addition to learning how the economy evolves relative to baseline, we need, I think, to pay 
attention to how inflation and inflation expectations are evolving relative to target. 
We do have a dual mandate, of course, and for those who haven’t yet done so, I highly 
recommend that they read the paper by President Williams and coauthor presented at the AEA 
meetings—a very nice illustration on some implications of inflation expectations in a world of a 
low r*. 
Finally, I’ll conclude with some risks to the outlook. I would cite, as we did in our 
December statement, both financial developments and the global economy. On the latter, the 
news since our December meeting has been disappointing. Fed staff, the IMF, the World Bank, 
and the Bloomberg consensus, have all downgraded their outlook for global growth in 2019, and 
just last week the ECB shifted its view from balanced risk to downside risk in its official 
statement. Now, this global slowdown in tandem with the lagged effects of the appreciation of 
the dollar over the past couple of years indicates, to me, that a slowdown in export growth or 
perhaps even an outright contraction as we saw in 2015 and ’16 is a risk to the outlook in 2019. 
January 29–30, 2019
120 of 255
 
 
 
 
And, of course, this is before any additional risk associated with an escalation in the trade dispute 
with the United States and China. 
In terms of financial developments, perhaps somewhat surprisingly, financial conditions 
today are slightly easier than they were right before our December meeting, although, of course, 
they are materially tighter than they were in September 2018. Importantly, I believe much of the 
recent improvement in financial conditions is due to our postmeeting communication about 
policy and the balance sheet via the minutes and public remarks, and the effect these 
communications have had on market expectations regarding our policy rate path. I’ll have more 
to say about this in the go-round tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. In December I noted that a cloud of gloom had 
come over many of my contacts—I would say most of my contacts—but since that time, and 
somewhat to my surprise, moods have brightened a bit. They are bolstered by more tranquil 
financial markets, ongoing strong economic growth, and job growth in December, and, as one 
contact put it, “a good start to January,” where he was referencing foot traffic, sales, and orders 
at his businesses. 
Notably few are still talking about an imminent recession, and they’ve almost stopped 
talking about—I think they must have read Diebold and Rudebusch—the end of recession simply 
because of old age. Instead they are planning for a slower but ongoing expansion. So they’ve 
really come to grips with the fact that we’re slowing, but it’s not going to end in a recession is 
their current view. So in practice this means that they’re moving ahead with plans to hire and 
invest, but they’re avoiding risky ventures, and they’re not going after marginal projects. 
January 29–30, 2019
121 of 255
 
 
 
 
I view this change as consistent with the hard data, which continue to come in strong. So 
while I read this as good news, I think it’s also clear from them that the past couple of months 
have really chastened them, if you will, and they’re on high alert and ready to pull back if there’s 
any signs of danger. And here I think this context of uncertainty looms large. The long and 
growing list of worries, including financial market volatility that we just came through, trade 
tensions, Brexit, the yield curve, global growth—it’s getting longer and longer—and, most 
recently, the disruptive standoffs in Washington, added to this general sense of unease. 
Although financial market volatility has come down of late, policy uncertainty remains 
quite elevated. For instance, if you look at the policy uncertainty index developed by economists 
Baker, Bloom, and Davis, it shot up in December, and it reached one of its highest readings in 
over 15 years. Global uncertainty, as Steve mentioned, has also come up sharply. It was pushed 
higher by Brexit and trade tensions and worries about China slowing, et cetera. 
So the question is, how does all of this uncertainty affect the economy? And I thought 
Steve’s presentation gave us one look into that. We all know it’s not good, but it’s hard to 
quantify it or pin it down. And so ongoing research by staff at the San Francisco Fed tries to do 
this using both a theory—and by that, I mean a model—and also empirical analysis. In both of 
those, they find that higher uncertainty—that is, an uncertainty shock—acts on the economy like 
a negative aggregate demand shock. It lowers both output and inflation. In the model, this dual 
effect results from a negative feedback loop—businesses get pessimistic, they stop hiring, 
consumers react by spending less and saving more, and then that goes on and on around until it 
amplifies over time. So when you estimate this in the model using an empirical VAR, they find 
that the effects of this are notable. In fact, according to the model, after the Great Recession, 
January 29–30, 2019
122 of 255
 
 
 
 
policy uncertainty associated with events like the 2013 fiscal cliff pushed the unemployment rate 
up roughly 1 percentage point and held inflation down. 
More recently, and I think more salient for this current year that we face, their analysis 
shows that uncertainty subtracted a few tenths from job growth—even though it was strong, it 
could have been stronger—and inflation for the past year. So a few tenths off both of those, at a 
time when uncertainty was lower than it is today. Looking ahead, I expect uncertainty to 
continue to act on the economy in the coming year. 
If I balance out the information from the contacts, the fact that financial conditions are 
tighter now than they were in September, and the fact that this uncertainty looms large, I have 
marked down my estimate of growth and inflation somewhat relative to my December SEP 
projection. That said, in view of the momentum in the economy and the strength of the hard 
data—and job growth is the greatest example of that—I continue to expect the economy to 
expand at a solid pace this year, slightly above its long-run potential. Continued above-trend 
growth should further tighten labor markets and put slight upward pressure on both wages and 
prices. With recent inflation data coming in on the soft side, I view this additional upward 
pressure as welcome. 
Now, in terms of inflation—and I’ll finish with inflation—I’m increasingly worried about 
achieving our 2 percent objective on a sustained basis, and several factors inform my view. 
First, with greater-than-expected slowdown in foreign economies, I expect the dollar to 
strengthen, and that will put downward pressure on prices in the United States. This will add to a 
downward drag already coming from prices for health care and other goods and services that are 
less sensitive to cyclical pressures. Again, research at the San Francisco Fed, which we now 
update regularly on our website, in case you want to follow it, shows that inflation in these 
January 29–30, 2019
123 of 255
 
 
 
 
acyclical industries fell in October, and remained low in November, and contributed to the 
overall softening in inflation that we’ve been documenting. This work also shows that the 
cyclical component of inflation, which should respond to the ongoing tightening, has been 
treading water for the past year or so. 
Now, of course, this is no surprise, given the well-documented flattening of the Phillips 
curve, and President Bullard mentioned this. But the question, I think, is, what should we expect 
from the Phillips curve in the future? We’ve had numerous empirical analyses, some of them 
done in San Francisco and other places, that said we don’t expect a lot of nonlinearities, but it’s 
also important to think about what’s making the Phillips curve flat. And here new work by staff 
at the San Francisco Fed again provides some guidance. This is a theoretical exercise, but I felt 
it was informative. They innovate from the standard macro “workhorse” models that don’t 
actually have direct labor and firm negotiations over wages, and they directly put such 
negotiations into a model and ask the question, how does this affect wages and prices in the 
evolution of inflation in those areas? They have simple search frictions—time to match is the 
friction—and then firms and workers are directly bargaining. In this more detailed framework, 
they find that as workers’ bargaining power declines, they lose their ability to translate higher 
labor demand and higher productivity into higher wages, and so you just don’t get this 
relationship between worker demand and higher wages. This flattens the Phillips curve, and this 
flattening persists as long as bargaining power is constrained. So it’s a persistent effect. 
Then if you look—do we think worker bargaining power is lower and will it persist? I go 
back to Alan Krueger’s remarks at the Jackson Hole symposium last year, and he documented, I 
think, very carefully that worker bargaining power has been coming down for two decades and 
importantly, has continued to decline steadily throughout this expansion because of a variety of 
January 29–30, 2019
124 of 255
 
 
 
 
things that are secular and about market structure and less about any particular tightness of the 
labor market. So I think, then, that this flatter Phillips curve is likely to be persistent in our 
economy. If I put all of this together, I see more downside than upside risk on inflation, and this 
is something I’ll be watching in the months ahead. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And with that, I say, 
“Go Rams!” [Laughter] 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thanks. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The Fourth District economy continues to 
expand but at a somewhat slower pace than in the past year. Several contacts told us they 
expected activity to slow down because last year was such a good year for them. Still, business 
and labor contacts indicate there’s a lot of angst about the outlook, including with regard to trade 
and tariff policies and global real growth. Most firms reported that the volatility in financial 
markets has not had any material effect on their firms’ activities or on their outlook for the year. 
Before the government shutdown ended, most contacts reported that, while it was lasting 
longer than expected, it had not yet affected their firms. A few contacts noted it had delayed 
some significant financial transactions that required government reviews and approvals, which 
could affect some planned activities in the near term. 
The January reading of the Cleveland Fed staff’s diffusion index, which is a measure of 
the difference between the percentage of contacts reporting better versus worse conditions, fell 
from 22 to 7, about the level seen in the second half of 2016. A majority of contacts continued to 
report stable activity levels for their firms, but there was a smaller proportion reporting an 
increase in activity. 
Manufacturing activity in the District has softened. Some contacts attributed slower 
activity to typical seasonality. Others cited the effects of trade policy tariffs and weaker growth 
January 29–30, 2019
125 of 255
 
 
 
 
abroad. Indeed, some contacts noted the anticipation of higher tariffs and freight costs. Some 
customers pulled orders forward in the second half of last year and, as a result, we are seeing 
slower activity now. A contact from a large industrial packaging products company noted that 
the uncertainty surrounding trade policy had lowered demand for the firm’s products and that 
demand from China and major economies in Europe had also fallen. A contact who is from a 
large multinational power management company also noted declines in orders from some foreign 
markets. 
Now, despite softer activity, District labor market conditions remain strong. Based on the 
early benchmark data, payrolls grew a bit more than 1 percent last year. That’s ¾ percentage 
point higher than the Cleveland Federal Reserve staff’s estimate of the District’s longer-run trend 
employment growth. The District’s unemployment rate remained at 4½ percent, where it has 
been since July. This is about ½ percentage point below the Cleveland staff’s estimate of its 
longer-run normal level. So that’s a strong labor market for our District. Firms continue to 
report a lack of qualified workers. Some firms have shifted from looking for new hires to doing 
all they can to retain their current workers. Wage pressures in the District remain elevated, and 
many contacts expect those pressures to persist this year. 
Price pressures in the District also remain elevated. Now, costs for some inputs such as 
steel have fallen in recent months, but many contacts continue to report increases in their 
non-labor input costs overall and their own product prices. A number of these contacts again 
cited tariffs and generally stronger demand as contributing to cost increases. 
Turning to the national economy, I am very happy the federal government shutdown is 
over. It imposed hardships for workers not getting paid, and for businesses that rely on the parts 
of the government that weren’t operating. As a result, we will see somewhat slower growth in 
January 29–30, 2019
126 of 255
 
 
 
 
the first quarter than otherwise, but I expect that to be made up in the second quarter provided 
there is not another shutdown. 
Financial markets have stabilized somewhat since our previous meeting, with stock prices 
retracing some of their declines since October. The U.S. economy remains largely in a healthy 
position. I have made little change in my outlook for the economy since our previous meeting, 
but the elevated risks I noted last time are still in place, including questions about the strength of 
the global outlook and uncertainties regarding tariff and trade policy. I expect growth to slow 
from last year’s unsustainable 3 percent pace toward trend as the effects of fiscal stimulus and 
monetary stimulus wane. But note that the path toward sustainability is rarely smooth. The 
question is whether we are going to see a much sharper slowdown than that. 
Now, I can spin scenarios in which that happens, including a sharper slowdown in China 
or continuing volatility in financial markets and uncertainty regarding trade, leading to the 
significant declines in business and consumer sentiment and a pullback in spending. But my 
modal outlook remains that we will see growth at, or somewhat above, my trend growth rate of 
2 percent. Labor markets will continue to be strong, and inflation will remain near 2 percent, 
apart from the transitory effects of changing oil prices. 
The strength in the labor market will continue to buoy income growth and consumer 
spending. For the fourth year in a row, payrolls grew more than 2½ million jobs last year. This 
is an average of about 220,000 jobs per month, and the pace was even stronger in the last three 
months of the year where monthly gains rose to over 250,000. This pace is well above estimates 
of trend employment growth. 
The unemployment rate, at 3.9 percent, is near its 50-year low. Despite a downward 
trend driven by demographics, the participation rate has continued to fluctuate within a fairly 
January 29–30, 2019
127 of 255
 
 
 
 
tight range over the past three years. Now, it is possible that the participation rate could surprise 
us and move higher, but it’s worth considering that, based on many estimates of trend including 
several made by economists at the various Reserve Banks and the Board, and the Congressional 
Budget Office (CBO), the current participation rate exceeds trend almost as much as it ever has. 
That maximum was reached before the 2001 recession when labor markets were extremely tight. 
Sustaining the expansion means that the pace of job growth will need to slow to a more 
sustainable level over the next couple of years. 
The ongoing strength of the labor market has produced a steady pickup in labor 
compensation, which is welcome. Because this pickup has been in line with productivity growth 
and inflation, it has not added to inflation rate pressures. I’m not concerned with the inflation 
picture either to the upside or the downside at this point. The decline in oil prices in the fourth 
quarter of last year will temporarily lower total PCE inflation early in the year, but the recent 
partial reversal and stabilization of prices means that PCE inflation is likely to rise gradually 
back to 2 percent over the year. Core inflation has remained near 2 percent. The survey 
measures of longer-run inflation expectations and the Cleveland Fed’s model-based measure 
have remained stable at levels consistent with our 2 percent inflation goal. 
Now, measures of inflation compensation based on asset prices suggest some decline, but 
I put less stock in these measures during periods of heightened volatility, which can affect term 
premiums and the risk premiums, making it hard to draw conclusions about inflation 
expectations for market prices. So looking through the near-term decline in headline inflation, I 
expect underlying inflation to remain near 2 percent. 
If my modal forecast comes to pass, we could chalk up 2019 as another very good year 
for the economy. But there are risks to the forecast, as many of you mentioned, including 
January 29–30, 2019
128 of 255
 
 
 
 
slower-than-anticipated growth in Europe and China; the possibility of a hard Brexit or other 
geopolitical risk, including unrest in Venezuela, an important oil-exporting country; continued 
uncertainty about tariffs and other government policies; or continued declines in consumer and 
business confidence, which could lead to pullbacks in spending, losses on leveraged loans to 
weaker borrowers, and further tightening in financial conditions and a pullback in risk-taking. 
So though my modal forecast anticipates that, in order to promote the achievement of our dual-
mandate goals, the federal funds rate will likely need to rise a bit further this year, the risk to the 
outlook means there is considerable uncertainty associated with this policy rate path—in terms of 
both the pace of increases and the stopping point for this tightening cycle. 
I see no reason to act preemptively because, with respect to our monetary policy goals, 
the economy is in a good spot. Growth appears to be slowing from an unsustainable above-trend 
pace. Labor markets are strong. And although the unemployment rate is lower than its longer-
run sustainable level, inflation is near 2 percent and does not show signs of appreciably rising. 
So, in my view, monetary policy doesn’t appear either to be far behind or far “ahead of the 
curve.” The federal funds rate is now at the bottom of the range of estimates of its longer-run 
neutral rate. Recent policy increases are still working themselves through the economy, and our 
balance sheet continues to shrink, putting some upward pressure on longer-term interest rates. 
In this environment, I believe we can take the time to assess incoming economic and 
financial information and what it means for the medium-run outlook and the risks to the outlook. 
If real GDP growth slows more than expected or underlying inflation moves down, it could 
curtail further rate increases. But it is also important to remember that we want to see growth in 
employment slow from the unsustainable pace we have seen over the past year. We should not 
get overly pessimistic about the outlook if we see some softening in the data. If the economy 
January 29–30, 2019
129 of 255
 
 
 
 
performs as expected and the downside risks don’t materialize, we likely will need to move the 
funds rate up later in the year to sustain the expansion and promote our goals. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. I’m going to suggest that we take a short-ish break 
until a quarter of 4—15 minutes—and resume, if that’s suitable. Thanks. 
[Coffee break] 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. We’ll resume with President Harker. Thank you very much. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Regarding the forecast, I am in general 
agreement with the staff’s near-term forecast of economic activity, although I anticipate that the 
first quarter may be a bit weaker than the staff projects. We have a number of contacts who have 
indicated that this quarter will be weaker than 2018:Q1. 
The Third District continues to grow at a modest pace, and the regional labor market 
remains robust, with solid job growth that is broad based geographically and across sectors. The 
unemployment rate in the region has remained at 4.1 percent since August, which is below its 
pre-recession rate. 
Although the labor market remains tight, however, we have received reports of some 
softening of wage pressures. Our January manufacturing survey rebounded to levels that once 
again exceed their nonrecessionary average, but there has been a noticeable weakening in this 
sector that began in the second half of last year. 
We also observed significant weakening in the current employment index and reductions 
in price pressures. Manufacturers remain optimistic, although somewhat less so than at this time 
last year. Hiring plans and planned capital expenditures appear healthy, and the government 
shutdown has yet to have affected firms in the region. But some contacts have indicated that 
January 29–30, 2019
130 of 255
 
 
 
 
they would start laying off workers if the situation were to change and the continued shutdown 
began affecting sales. Thank goodness that’s over for now. 
The continued optimism of the respondents is further reflected in the answers to some 
special survey questions. In comparing the first quarter’s activity and the last quarter’s activity, 
65.4 percent of firms indicated they expected activity to increase, with the largest fraction 
reporting expected increases of 2 to 4 percent. As well, 46.3 percent of firms reported increased 
demand over the past several months, as opposed to 27.8 percent of firms reporting decreasing 
demand. Of those expecting production increases, about one-third indicated they anticipated 
hiring additional workers, while roughly one-third indicated they’ll work their existing labor 
force additional hours. About 25 percent anticipate that additional output will come from 
increased productivity. 
Now, the relatively healthy manufacturing picture is decidedly not what we’re seeing in 
the service sector. Our January nonmanufacturing survey went into negative territory for the 
first time in seven years. The region’s consumers seemed to be more cautious, and expectations 
of future activity declined dramatically. The future-activity index is approaching record low 
territory. 
Regarding the government shutdown, our region has very little direct exposure to 
government economic activity. We are not seeing any noticeable change in unemployment 
insurance claims. Now, the only direct evidence we have seen is from two coffee shops near the 
national park sites around the bank and near the federal courthouse. They have reduced the 
number of large coffee urns they brewed in the morning from five to two. My assumption is, this 
will quickly reverse and that Philadelphians will again be very well caffeinated and vigorously 
demonstrating the brotherly love we are very well known for. Please—go Rams! [Laughter] 
January 29–30, 2019
131 of 255
 
 
 
 
To summarize, the regional economic activity continues to grow modestly, but there are 
some signs that the risks may be weighted toward the downside. Additionally, contacts are 
expressing little indication of mounting price pressures, which could indicate that inflation will 
remain somewhat below target for some time to come. As for the implications of all of this on 
policy, more on that tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Last time I said, “The data were good, but the 
mood was bad,” and that is even more true today across our District, with the notable exception 
of Clemson, South Carolina [laughter], where the mood is euphoric and the orange sweatshirts 
are moving off the shelves. 
The poster child for good data is, of course, the jobs report. In addition, the staff’s 
7 percent estimate for fourth-quarter business investment growth was encouraging. Industrial 
production and the CPI report also indicates an economy that is on track. 
My contacts agree. They see a good start to the new year. They report strong consumer 
spending for the fourth quarter and that capital expenditure plans for 2019 largely remain 
unchanged. This is particularly welcome as I continue to watch for any indication that 
businesses are reacting to the downbeat mood by cutting investment or discretionary spending. 
Some contacts indicate that input price increases are now slowing in the case of steel, pulp, 
freight, and oil. And this is largely consistent with the PPI report. 
Even though markets have recovered to a significant degree from the late December 
decline, sentiment indexes are falling, including Richmond’s manufacturing and service surveys. 
The ISM in particular looked weak across the board. Today’s consumer confidence report was 
weak as well; that fall is understandable: The government was shut down, the U.S., Mexico, 
January 29–30, 2019
132 of 255
 
 
 
 
Canada Agreement (USMCA) isn’t yet approved, trade negotiations with China and Europe 
continue, the Brexit deadline approaches, and growth in China and Europe appears to be 
weakening. Having said all of this, most of these survey indexes remain at fairly high levels, 
even after the recent declines. So maybe the mood has worsened, but it’s not at its worst yet. 
How do we interpret the tension between the data and the sentiment? I do believe 
sentiment can spill over into data. For example, several sentiment indicators spiked after the 
2016 presidential election. Then I’m told 2017 growth surprised us on the upside. Something 
similar could easily happen to the downside in 2019, and perhaps the staff’s downgrade of 2019 
business investment reflects that risk. 
In our District, the shutdown has dominated the conversation, given the large presence of 
the federal government. Notably, losing 800,000 paychecks nationwide is like a simultaneous 
strike at UPS, GE, and AT&T. A lot of lives were disrupted. Even though the direct effects on 
GDP were limited, given the commitment to give back pay, there were multiple knock-on effects 
for retailers who serve government workers, states not collecting taxes, schools not receiving 
grants, et cetera. A Baltimore-based food wholesaler that sells to hundreds of small restaurants 
in D.C. office buildings reported sales and collections that declined dramatically. Federal 
contractors were affected, particularly employees of smaller ones. Most importantly, the 
shutdown reduces business confidence in the ability of the federal government to function 
nondisruptively, to attract and retain the best talent, to deliver upsides like an infrastructure 
program, and to avoid downsides like the upcoming debt ceiling negotiations or a return to 
sequestration of the budget. All of this has to have an effect on investment. 
While I can still imagine an upside—if the government stays back at work, the trade 
issues are settled, and a second fiscal stimulus like the infrastructure deal gets done—the 
January 29–30, 2019
133 of 255
 
 
 
 
likelihood of those seem to be fading. The magnitude is fading, too. I fear businesses may have 
lost faith that the climate for business investment will recover and, while not yet scaling back, 
are also reluctant to scale up. And the potential downsides driving the weak sentiment seem to 
be coming into ever-sharper focus. While my base case scenario is still a transition to more 
modest above-trend growth, I will say my conviction is weakening, and I’d like some time for 
the fog to lift. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’d like to congratulate President Daly on 
wishing the Rams good wishes in the Super Bowl. But I do miss then-President Williams when 
he would always look at his favorite professional sports team and forecast doom for anybody 
who beat them. With the U.S. economy and with the Patriots and the long data series that they 
have there, I would have thought that would be easy for Vice Chairman Williams to make the 
keys dance on that one. So maybe you can report on that. [Laughter] 
The reports from my directors and other contacts generally indicated that domestic 
demand continued to be solid, although there were a few more notes of caution than last round. I 
heard mixed accounts about changes in costs and pricing, but, on balance, my sense is that 
overall inflationary pressures have ticked down a bit. 
Most of my manufacturing contacts were still positive about current activity. Notably, 
none of the reports was consistent with the sharp drop we saw in the December national producer 
manufacturing index (PMI). One of my directors who runs a major manufacturing conglomerate 
indicated that their orders had increased in December and for the fourth quarter as a whole. 
Similarly, two major producers of heavy equipment said that U.S. demand continued to hold up, 
and one of them noted a healthy order book through the first half of the year. That said, all three 
January 29–30, 2019
134 of 255
 
 
 
 
noted a heightened degree of caution. For example, my director said that many of his customers 
were hesitant to commit to new capital expenditures. The most downbeat assessment I heard this 
round came from a major steel maker. Prices for hot rolled steel have fallen by about $200, to 
$690 a ton, and his first-quarter order book is weak. He’s still hopeful that demand will hold up 
in 2019, but he’ll be watching first-quarter orders closely. 
Beyond the United States, a number of contacts noted softer growth abroad, particularly 
in Europe and Asia-Pacific. Changes appear in line with most forecasts we’ve seen to date. 
The news from labor markets was about the same as last month. We continued to hear 
many reports of shortages of workers as well as firms increasing wages, benefits, and training. 
Elsewhere on the cross currents, transportation bottlenecks and higher shipping costs 
remain common concerns, as do tariffs. One director in the apparel industry said that her firm 
had mostly absorbed the 10 percent tariffs on Chinese imports, but would be forced to raise 
prices if tariffs went to 25 percent. That said, as I just noted, some steel prices have come down, 
and my manufacturing director indicated that, broadly speaking, his businesses have seen a 
significant easing in material cost increases. Furthermore, he and a number of other contacts 
noted a limited ability to pass through higher costs to customers leading to some compression in 
profit margins. 
When I put all of these observations together, my reading is that inflationary pressures 
are down a bit from December. Certainly, there’s no evidence that a dramatic breakout in 
inflation is imminent. 
Meanwhile, financial market conditions have improved. Last round I reported how a 
major automaker had decided to hold off on issuing debt in the hope that markets would be more 
January 29–30, 2019
135 of 255
 
 
 
 
receptive in January. This round, they indicated that conditions had indeed improved, and that 
they had successfully gone to market with a number of debt offerings. 
Regarding the national outlook, like the Tealbook, we’ve assumed that the recent net 
changes in financial conditions largely reflect markets recognizing the return to potential growth 
that’s been in our economic projections for some time. Under this relatively benign view, the 
market’s more realistic assessment leads to a tightening in financial conditions and dictates some 
markdown in our forecast. But the standard interest rate and wealth effects captured by our 
econometric models imply only modest adjustments. In the end, our forecast revisions are pretty 
much like those in the Tealbook. So, with resource pressures continuing to build in these 
projections, some further policy rate increases would eventually be needed to bring the economy 
back to potential. 
Now, that is the benign perspective on recent events, but there is another less benign but 
realistic scenario that is on our minds: namely, worries over slowing foreign growth, 
unproductive trade negotiations, a disruptive Brexit, and increased political tensions—both 
domestic and international—could have a notably greater effect on household and business 
spending. Another add-on could be that financial markets have not yet fully adjusted to the idea 
that a deceleration in economic activity to trend means that we’re talking about growth rates 
below 2 percent. If so, we could be in store for further reductions in the prices of risky assets. 
Under this interpretation, short-run real r* could drop, and today’s funds rate setting, 
which we currently assess as a bit accommodative, could quickly shift to be restrictive. In this 
scenario, simply keeping policy rates on hold would be expected to close resource gaps and 
perhaps do even more. My staff explored this scenario using our Chicago Fed dynamic 
stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model. In its current baseline forecast, short-run nominal 
January 29–30, 2019
136 of 255
 
 
 
 
r* is close to 2.5 percent in 2019, and real GDP is projected to grow above its trend rate of 
increase. By this accounting, policy is currently close to neutral and is consistent with continued 
solid economic performance. 
As the counterfactual scenario, we considered a situation in which first-quarter real GDP 
growth is reduced to 1.4 percent because of sluggishness in both nondurables and services 
consumption and private fixed investment. Our model sees this as a particularly adverse 
configuration, because it interprets the joint weakness of consumption and investment as 
reflecting a combination of a large negative shock to productivity and another adverse shock that 
increases the demand for safe assets. As a result, the model’s short-term nominal equilibrium 
interest rate falls to about 1½ percent. So, in this alternative, our 2¼ to 2½ percent funds rate 
target would look pretty restrictive. This scenario is not the most likely path, according to our 
model, but the exercise highlights how, depending on the configuration of shocks, even modestly 
lower first-quarter real GDP growth could change our assessment of the current funds rate range 
from slightly accommodative to somewhat restrictive. As I’ll discuss tomorrow, a wait-and-see 
policy appears to be the appropriate risk-management response to such plausible alternatives to 
the baseline outlook, and exercises such as the one I just described may help us think about a 
suitable monetary policy reaction function for this difficult decisionmaking period. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think my comments will echo, to some 
degree, the comments of President Evans. Economic activity in the 11th District remains solid, 
but our Dallas Fed surveys and discussions with contacts suggest a broad-based deceleration in 
activity across manufacturing, services, retail, housing, and energy sectors. While labor 
January 29–30, 2019
137 of 255
 
 
 
 
constraints remain a challenge, contacts are increasingly citing—to us, at least—demand-side 
factors, as well as overall increased business uncertainty attributed heavily to tariffs and a 
weaker global economy. 
We asked several special questions in our Dallas Fed December surveys, because we at 
the Dallas Fed have a particular concern that a slowing economy will squeeze margins, and that 
corporate earnings may have further downward revisions to come. In that survey, more 
businesses noted decreases, rather than increases, in pricing power over the past six months. 
One-quarter of businesses we surveyed said they are unable to pass on higher costs to customers 
in the way of price increases, and another one-half of respondents said they’re only able to pass 
along some of their higher costs. Only 26 percent of those surveyed said they could pass on 
either some or all of their higher costs. 
Pricing power, not surprisingly, seems to have eroded most in the retail sector, while 
almost 60 percent of our respondents now report more difficulty passing on cost increases, 
versus six months ago. And we continue to see weakness in our local housing markets. 
I’ll just comment on energy. We do expect global oil consumption growth to soften in 
2019. We also expect global production growth to slow somewhat, particularly because of 
declining OPEC production as well as weakening U.S. output. Regarding U.S. output, it’s worth 
noting that, in the fourth quarter, growth and activity in oil and gas stalled. This took a break 
from a 10-quarter-long trend of rising activity, according to our energy surveys. 
Our base case is that crude oil output will grow by approximately 1 million barrels a day, 
but it’s primarily because of the large number of drilled but uncompleted wells. We expect 
cap-ex to go down substantially—it just may not affect 2019 output that substantially. It will 
January 29–30, 2019
138 of 255
 
 
 
 
affect 2020 output. By the way, this million barrels a day figure compares to approximately 1.7 
million barrels a day in production growth in 2018. 
It’s the view of our energy group at the Dallas Fed that price risk for 2019 remains to the 
downside, particularly if there is greater weakening in global economic growth. And it’s worth 
noting that this slowing will particularly affect the energy service sector, which is highly 
leveraged, and also has a meaningful portion of the high-yield index. So if this scenario is what 
unfolds, we would expect this will probably result in an overall increase in high-yield spreads 
and may have some negative effect on financial conditions more broadly. 
Regarding the U.S. economy, we’ve revised down our Dallas Fed real GDP growth 
estimate for 2019 to approximately 2 percent. And I must say, we see a high level of uncertainty 
associated with this forecast. And I’ll rattle off the litany that everyone has said: global growth 
is decelerating; financial conditions, although they’ve improved in the past few weeks, are 
tighter than six months ago; for us, issues relating to tariffs; fiscal stimulus fading; Brexit; and 
other issues in Europe, all create uncertainty. And I’d get back to the basics: Aging 
demographics, slowing workforce growth, the effect of technology and technology-enabled 
disruption on pricing power, and margins and rising input costs are all factors that are creating 
elevated levels of uncertainty. Our concern is that all of this will translate into slower growth 
but, more significantly, more downward revisions in corporate earnings, which in turn will lead 
to less investment and certainly may have an effect on financial markets. And if S&P earnings 
get revised downward substantially more, the U.S. stock market, at least in my judgment, doesn’t 
yet fully reflect that. Later in the year, this may ultimately affect the consumer. But in this 
scenario, it will work its way through corporates first, through less investment and lower stock 
January 29–30, 2019
139 of 255
 
 
 
 
prices, and through weaker hiring with a lag later in the year, and ultimately affect the spending 
ability of the consumer. That’s the downside case we’re monitoring. 
Regarding inflation, I continue to believe the technology and technology-enabled 
disruption and globalization are having a muting effect on the pricing power of businesses. This 
is the Phillips curve discussion that President Daly and President Bullard and others were having. 
We do find it notable that, in this tight of a labor market, with GDP growth as strong as it’s been, 
the U.S. economy is unable to generate a sustained rise in inflation above 2 percent—which 
makes me wonder what inflation will do in a slowing economy and certainly in a downturn. And 
I wonder if, a year from now, we aren’t going to be worried more about deflation versus 
inflation. I believe a number of these concerns regarding the outlook for growth as well as 
inflation are already being reflected in the level and shape of the U.S. Treasury yield curve as 
well as the federal funds futures markets. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The outlook for the 10th District economy 
remains generally positive, with our business contacts expecting a slower pace of growth this 
year than what they saw as an unusually robust 2018. 
Our most recent manufacturing and services survey showed somewhat slower growth 
than in previous months, although expectations of future activity remain positive. And contacts 
outside the energy sector expect to maintain or increase capital spending. Our contacts also 
expressed concern about political uncertainty, and some reported negative effects of the partial 
government shutdown on their business activity, especially those in the hospitality and tourism 
industry. 
January 29–30, 2019
140 of 255
 
 
 
 
District energy activity fell in the fourth quarter of 2018, the first quarterly decline we 
have seen in nearly three years. Following the drop in oil prices, over half of our survey 
respondents reported a markdown in expected 2019 capital expenditures. Even so, most District 
energy firms remain in relatively good financial health despite somewhat higher levels of debt 
coming into the recent oil price drop than was the case with the 2014 downturn. 
Finally, conditions in the District’s agricultural sector remain downbeat because of large 
inventories and trade uncertainties. We recently hosted a food and agriculture roundtable and 
heard the heightened concern about farmland values, which, for the past several years, have 
remained relatively stable in the face of low farm income. Participants expected land values to 
be under pressure as more acreage comes to market, primarily from absentee owners looking for 
higher returns. 
Regarding the national economy, although my outlook has not fundamentally changed 
since our December meeting, the intermeeting period did serve up a menu of cautions related to 
financial market volatility, the partial government shutdown, and a more downbeat assessment of 
the global economy. How those and other factors play out could influence my outlook in the 
coming months, but for now, I continue to expect above-trend growth this year with subdued 
inflation. I will be carefully considering the balance of risk as well, as I view any upside risk 
related to the strong labor market and healthy consumer spending as having taken a backseat to a 
number of downside risks. 
Consumer spending appears poised to support the ongoing expansion, as rising 
employment and compensation boost personal income. Notwithstanding average monthly 
employment gains of 220,000 during 2018, job openings continued to rise, up more than 
15 percent on a year-over-year basis in November. Likewise, the National Federal of 
January 29–30, 2019
141 of 255
 
 
 
 
Independent Businesses (NFIB) survey in December showed the share of small businesses 
planning to increase employment remained near its historical high in December. Compensation 
growth, as measured by average hourly earnings and by the wage and salaries component of ECI, 
accelerated to near 3 percent in 2018. With strong labor market conditions, wage growth is 
likely to remain solid. However, at this stage of the expansion, in an economy near full 
employment, real wage growth, not just nominal, is especially important to the assessment of 
consumer spending over the medium term. 
Will further tightening in the labor market contribute to higher real wage growth, or are 
the key determinants of strong real wages other than the business cycle? Of course, real wage 
growth has been weak during much of the current expansion—just under 1 percent over the past 
year. Recent research by my staff examined the historical relationships between real wage 
growth, productivity, and the unemployment rate and concluded that the key to real wage growth 
at this point in the business cycle is improvement in productivity growth. The analysis found a 
strong positive relationship between productivity growth and real wage growth—of course, 
something that has been pointed out in other studies. The analysis also found that the state of the 
labor market, as measured by the unemployment rate, did not have a direct relationship with real 
wage growth but, instead, served to damp the contribution of productivity growth to wage 
growth when labor markets are weak. 
Based on these historical relationships, the improvement in labor market conditions since 
2010 is estimated to have contributed approximately ½ percentage point to real wage growth, but 
future modest reductions in the unemployment rate would not be expected to contribute much 
further. Instead, improvement in productivity growth will be key to generating higher real wage 
growth in coming years. For example, if productivity growth were to return to levels seen 
January 29–30, 2019
142 of 255
 
 
 
 
between 1997 and 2002, this analysis would suggest that real wage growth would increase 1 full 
percentage point. 
Although the labor market and the broader U.S. economy retain positive momentum, 
risks emanating from the global economy are noteworthy. Economic data from China in 
particular have softened, and my staff’s assessment, along with our business contacts with 
operations in China, are less sanguine than the Tealbook. Rising household debt and slower 
growth in disposable income have begun to restrain household spending in China. Growth of 
real per capita disposable income for urban households in China has declined nearly 1 percentage 
point since the third quarter of 2017, a more rapid deceleration than real GDP growth. The 
household-debt-to-GDP ratio has reached 50 percent, double the level in 2010. 
In addition, the sharp decline in Chinese equity prices last year appears to have affected 
consumer confidence, restraining household spending through a negative wealth effect. On the 
business side, despite strong government support to state-owned enterprises, the private sector is 
under significant pressure from weakened demand and tightened financial condition. This 
pressure weighs on wage growth and may have started to affect employment growth beyond that 
expected from an aging population and lower birth rates. These developments make the Chinese 
economy more vulnerable to adverse shocks. 
The uncertainty about the global economic outlook and financial market volatility could 
affect confidence and thereby spending in the United States. Measures of consumer confidence 
and business confidence remain historically high but have softened a bit in recent months. 
Consumer confidence turned down as consumers lowered their expectations of future economic 
conditions. Assessments of current conditions remain within the range they have fluctuated 
throughout 2018. 
January 29–30, 2019
143 of 255
 
 
 
 
Indexes of business optimism have pulled back in recent months from their record highs 
earlier last year. According to the NFIB survey, fewer firms expect the economy to improve, 
and fewer plan to make capital outlays. Analysis by my staff indicates that shocks to the stock 
market affect consumer and business confidence, as households and businesses may interpret 
these shocks as signaling slower growth ahead. 
I also see downside risk posed by fiscal policy uncertainty. Although the partial 
government shutdown has a temporary resolution, the specter of additional standoffs in coming 
months tied to budget and federal debt limit decisions point to heightened uncertainty. 
Finally, recent readings on inflation remain benign, and I see little evidence that 
inflationary pressures will emerge over the forecast horizon. As last year’s dollar appreciation 
and oil price drop are passed through to core inflation this year, price pressures are likely to 
remain subdued. 
A development I am watching is the recent decline in long-term inflation compensation, 
which has fallen about 30 basis points since the end of September. I thought the Tealbook 
offered solid support for a view that this decline is related to changes in risk premiums rather 
than inflation expectations. However, I would not rule out the possibility that this decline in 
inflation compensation could be sending a signal about the global economy. 
Along these lines, I found a 2016 analysis by the Board staff helpful in understanding 
movements in inflation compensation. They show that a deteriorating global outlook—which 
manifested itself through lower demand for oil, increased investor risk aversion, and an 
appreciation of the dollar—helps explain the decline in inflation compensation that occurred 
between 2014 and 2016. With the recent declines in global PMIs and weaker-than-expected data 
January 29–30, 2019
144 of 255
 
 
 
 
releases in the euro area and China, expectations among market participants may be affected. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Sentiment from Sixth District contacts and 
directors have not changed materially from what I reported last meeting, and it mirrors what has 
been reported by many around this table this afternoon. There is still an air of apprehension over 
myriad uncertainties and downside risks to growth in 2019, and this represents a notable 
deterioration from the sentiment during 2018. However, these concerns have yet to cause my 
contacts to mark down their expectations for growth in 2019, but importantly, these expectations 
remain positive. 
“Risk off” is still a buzz phrase we hear often from southeastern decisionmakers, and we 
still hear some reports of uncertainty causing delays in hiring and capital investment projects. 
But the most notable change over the intermeeting period was that a handful of contacts, while 
still hewing to their previous growth strategies, have begun to engage in contingency planning 
should economic conditions falter. These plans include sizable cuts to staffing; cuts to travel and 
general expenses; and, more frequently, reviewing current projects. I would not say that reports 
along these lines were pervasive enough to constitute a trend, and no one reported that they had 
pulled the trigger on these plans. But I think it is notable that we were not hearing these sorts of 
anecdotes at all at this time last year. 
I, like everyone here, I imagine, am grateful that the partial government shutdown ended 
before we had to face Transportation Security Agency (TSA) and other essential workers on the 
job after missing two paychecks and having no prospect for when the impasse would break. The 
sense I got from many of my contacts was that we were fast collectively approaching a bright-
January 29–30, 2019
145 of 255
 
 
 
 
line moment when key functions would stop working seamlessly. As one example, more than a 
few firms reported they were having inventory issues due to imports being stuck in Customs 
during the shutdown. In fact, a large flower distributor in the region, which had product sitting 
in Customs at the moment, was quite worried that its business would be significantly affected if 
the shutdown had persisted through Valentine’s Day. Thankfully, such concerns were not 
realized, and I will remain hopeful that the three-week extension will provide enough time for a 
lasting compromise to be crafted. 
As with real activity, we are not detecting much of a change relative to the end of last 
year on the price and inflation front. For businesses, pass-through of enacted or prospective 
tariffs continues to be a mixed bag, still seemingly concentrated in the business to business 
(B2B) space, with limited effects on most retail prices. We are not detecting any significant 
move in inflation expectations from either anecdotal reports or formal survey efforts. 
We did hear some anxiety about March, when the delay in the imposition of the 
additional tariffs on Chinese imports is scheduled to expire. As I have noted before, many 
expect prices for consumer-facing products to be affected if those tariffs are enacted. But, for 
now, most are taking a wait-see-and-hope approach regarding this issue. 
In current labor markets, here, too, there has been no discernible shift in sentiment or firm 
behavior since the December meeting, with one important exception. We do have new and 
compelling visual evidence out of New Orleans of the growing skills gap. With 1 minute and 49 
seconds left in the NFC championship, in a tie game, the side judge somehow missed an obvious 
and egregious pass interference that, if called, would likely have resulted in a Saints victory. In 
the aftermath, a staffing agency in the New Orleans area sent around a flyer with an image 
capture of the side judge clearly watching and failing to call the penalty, asking the question, “Is 
January 29–30, 2019
146 of 255
 
 
 
 
your current job not a good fit?” See me after the meeting if you want to see the visual. 
[Laughter] 
In sum, I, like my contacts, have yet to materially alter my forecast for growth, which is 
slightly above long-run potential, or inflation, which we still have near the FOMC’s 2 percent 
objective in 2019. And we continue to see room to be patient on policy moves. More on this 
tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Most hard economic data still suggest a 
strong economy, as we have all heard, discounting the possibility of any nasty surprises in the 
releases that have been delayed by the government shutdown. That continued strength is most 
apparent in the labor market from the perspective of the outlook. The December labor market 
report was consistent with the assumption that I’ve had that we have reason to believe that labor 
force participation can continue to grow. Particularly encouraging was the increase in prime-age 
participation, which suggests that the gain did not just result from older workers delaying their 
retirement, perhaps, to rebuild their 401(k)’s. 
In addition, the employment-to-population ratio ended the year at a 10-year high. New 
claims fell to a 50-year low. Job openings were more abundant than at any time since the data 
have been collected. I think we can use the word “abundant” in that sentence, and, overall, we’re 
benefiting from one of the strongest job markets in decades. The strength of the labor market, in 
turn, provides an important and relatively resilient support for the rest of the economy. The tight 
labor market has begun to show through to higher wages as we expected it would, which, with 
inflation close to target, has boosted real incomes and buoyed consumption. 
January 29–30, 2019
147 of 255
 
 
 
 
The recent decline in oil prices should also support spending. We shouldn’t forget that 
the United States has more drivers than equity holders, and that the recent fall in gas prices is 
probably a more economically meaningful development for many Americans compared with the 
recent volatility in stock prices. 
Another interesting aspect of the jobs data has been the near-record level of quits. As we 
all know, they typically climb in strong markets as workers are more confident of finding 
alternative employment, but a side effect of a higher quits rate could also be better job matching, 
and increased productivity as workers take the risk of shifting from jobs that they may not be 
best suited for—perhaps on the sidelines—for those that better match their skills. 
A pickup in productivity growth is an important factor in my own outlook, as it allows 
relatively strong demand growth to not result in excessive price pressure, and I think that the 
recent—although now somewhat dated—indicators related to productivity are supportive. In 
particular, I’ll be looking at the data on investment in the fourth quarter closely to see if a third-
quarter slowdown in capital spending was, in fact, just a temporary pothole as I think many of us 
assumed that it would be. 
In regard to inflation, the fall in oil prices will likely translate into weak readings on 
headline inflation in the coming months, although core inflation appears likely to remain in the 
vicinity of the 2 percent target. I appreciated the Tealbook box on the recent decline in 
market-based measures of inflation compensation. As pointed out in the box, that decline has 
been correlated with the fall in oil prices, which has often been the case in the past. It’s not 
perfectly clear why that should be. I would say, I’m more reassured than President Bullard that 
the survey-based measures are little changed, and, overall, I think the conclusion we should 
reach is that inflation expectations are well anchored. I was very interested in Governor 
January 29–30, 2019
148 of 255
 
 
 
 
Clarida’s analysis that they seem to be anchored at 1.8 rather than 2 percent, but I have to say 
that that doesn’t overly trouble me, particularly as evidence seems to accumulate that it might 
take quite muscular measures to move those expectations—so muscular that they could end up 
simply de-anchoring them, rather than gently nudging them north. One additional observation 
on inflation has been the lack of any noticeable imprint of the recent increase in import tariffs, 
which suggests that firms haven’t been passing the tariffs on to consumers but rather absorbing 
them in their margins, pushing down profits, and supporting reports of intense competition and 
decreased pricing power. 
I also appreciated the Tealbook boxes on recession probabilities—the balance of financial 
and nonfinancial factors on the outlook. I agree with almost everyone here that it has been a 
somewhat disorienting time for the economic outlook, with financial market developments 
sending starkly different signals than the real-side indicators. This is primarily a reflection of the 
market’s increased focus on a number of prominent downside risks. Everyone around the table 
has discussed them. Most of them appear to be global in origin. 
But while I believe risk management should be an important consideration in the decision 
of policy—a very, very important consideration—we also have to be careful not to reinforce any 
deterioration of risk sentiment in our own actions and communications. And in that connection 
of avoiding negative signals, I want to echo the sentiment of a very clear, nearly universal 
majority of our colleagues on the Committee, Mr. Chairman, by saying, “Go, Rams.” [Laughter] 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Current national data indicate that, overall, 
the economy continues to perform well. Available data indicate strength in nearly every 
measured category, with most underlying fundamentals appearing to be little changed. 
January 29–30, 2019
149 of 255
 
 
 
 
But despite the strong data, there are a number of factors that provide a conflicting 
outlook on the domestic and global economy looking forward into the coming year—in 
particular, the market volatility that we have seen since last September, the government 
shutdown, and the continued uncertainty in global conditions and trade. 
Trade and global financial conditions continue to be an area for close monitoring, 
particularly the effects of a slowdown in growth in China, the unresolved trade negotiations, and 
the continued effects of tariffs on particular industries, including agriculture, which I’ll discuss in 
more detail shortly. The uncertainty about Brexit, challenges within the euro zone, and other 
international pressures all weigh on the positive domestic indicators. 
Here at home, the labor market continues to show strengthening. Labor force 
participation rose in December, resulting in an increase of the unemployment rate for the month, 
but, overall, the rate continues to be well below what the staff notes as the natural rate of 
unemployment. With more than 312,000 jobs created in December, making an average monthly 
job creation increase of 220,000 per month for the year, those are very strong numbers. 
I also continue to watch the labor force participation rate with interest and a keen eye 
toward where the new participants are coming from, whether they’re retirees joining the 
workforce, those that had dropped out of the labor force and are returning to work, or current 
workers staying longer. We saw another increase in wage growth for the year ending at near 
3 percent, and perhaps that’s part of what’s drawing people back into or keeping them in the 
workforce. 
The most recent consumer spending data remain strong but have slowed slightly. These 
data would appear to demonstrate a continued positive outlook and confidence in the economic 
conditions and strong underlying fundamentals. 
January 29–30, 2019
150 of 255
 
 
 
 
We’ve been below our stated inflation goal for some time, and it’s hard to know if the 
latest dip that took place last fall was a short-term issue or one of longer-term concern. I think 
this is going to be an important thing to watch, and it’s hoped that the rate will even out a bit, but 
I think it’s something to watch as a potential indicator. 
Two areas of particular interest to me are the housing market and agriculture conditions, 
as I noted earlier. The residential housing market has continued to decline over the past year, 
with potential borrowers expressing affordability concerns. And although mortgage rates stayed 
flat or even lowered a bit following the December meeting’s rate increase, a downward trend 
continues in both new and existing home sales. So I’ll be watching this to see if this is a signal 
about the broader strength of consumer demand or if it reflects more narrow factors, like 
preferences for renting versus buying. 
Finally, on the agriculture sector, there’s a small bright spot. Relative to other financial 
markets, agriculture commodity price markets have not experienced the same volatility seen in 
those other markets. They’re not good, but they’re not volatile. However, there are indications 
that, more generally, conditions are not improving but are continuing to moderately decline, as 
noted by President George. Nationally, banks are continuing to report agricultural loan 
delinquencies, which have slightly increased in recent months, indicating potential repayment 
risk. But, overall, there’s a sense in the ag lending space with community banks, with credit 
unions, and within the farm credit system, that conditions in 2019 will be worse than in 2018, 
and that profits will continue to decline throughout the year. Many financial institutions are 
experiencing an erosion in institutional knowledge, finding that the turnover, due to retirements 
and the aging of their loan staff, are leaving them without the historical knowledge of the farm 
January 29–30, 2019
151 of 255
 
 
 
 
crisis of the 1980s. So their lenders are relatively unfamiliar with hard times like those 
experienced during that crisis. 
There are also reports in the industry of psychological stress, both with lenders and with 
borrowers, due to the less experienced farmers and the newer ag lenders and their relative 
inexperience with these types of conditions. And, as President George noted, although ag land 
values for high-quality ground have generally maintained their strength, when more land is 
available to purchase, the price will inevitably decline, making that well-collateralized loan 
potentially vulnerable to risk and liquidation. 
On the whole, agricultural producers weathered the conditions in 2018, but those who 
lost, lost big, and some producers have had to sell smaller parcels of between 40 and 80 acres at 
a time to improve cash flow for the next year. Modest gradual ongoing pressure continues. 
One particular area of note—while the vast majority of agricultural producers use 
commercial bank financing, 31 states have seen increasing lending activity, particularly for 
major row crop inputs, coming from outside the traditional banking sector. Less qualified 
farmers who may not be able to receive production line credit from traditional banks are working 
with nonbank, potentially unregulated, lenders to finance crop inputs at higher rates than other 
traditional lenders. These lenders are not taking traditional collateral, but they’re relying on 
production rates, crop production sales, to repay the loans. The uncertainty in production 
volumes and historically low commodity prices, compounded by the global commodity 
inventory oversupply and decreased export opportunities, may give some cause for concern for 
the borrowers in this area who are already squeezed with lower profit margins. Time will tell, 
but this is something I haven’t heard in this industry before, and I’ll continue to monitor it as 
time goes on. 
January 29–30, 2019
152 of 255
 
 
 
 
Trade continues to be an area of uncertainty, and as the trade agreement discussions 
continue, China has been sourcing commodities from other places, notably Brazil and Argentina, 
resulting in a significant decline in U.S. exports. As that market has shifted, U.S. producers have 
seen sales increase to Europe, Africa, and Southeast Asia much more so than in previous years. 
The supply of commodities is weighing on prices in general. Genetically improved seed has 
enabled farmers to grow crops in environments where they could not in the past, and the level of 
supply damps the pricing.So while there’s not an agriculture crisis emerging currently, the 
conditions are difficult and ongoing. Profits are slim, and the excess global supply of 
commodities weighs on prices in general. At least for now, the concern is generally for the long 
term. 
To conclude: As many have noted, there appears to be a need to balance the largely 
favorable economic data with the underlying risks, including signals from financial market 
volatility and uncertainty in the global economy. This is a good time to exercise patience and to 
continue to watch and monitor as developments occur and review additional data as they become 
available. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. While the U.S. economy starts from a welcome position 
of full employment and inflation around target, I am concerned that the crosswinds buffeting the 
economy have gained force at a time when previous tailwinds have lost momentum. 
I did not anticipate the long shutdown when we last met. I worry that the protracted 
shutdown brought us closer to a tipping point in sentiment, adding to a long list of uncertainties. 
It came on the heels of a protracted trade conflict, a risk-off retrenchment in financial markets, a 
series of failed votes on Brexit, and a slowing of foreign activity that appears to be spreading 
January 29–30, 2019
153 of 255
 
 
 
 
from China into the euro area via Germany. The shutdown also increases uncertainty 
surrounding the path of federal spending when the bipartisan budget agreement expires. While 
any one of these risks may not, on its own, be sufficient to alter our economy’s course, I am 
concerned that the layering-on of many separate downside risks may erode consumer and 
business confidence and thereby feed into economic activity. Though much of the hard data that 
we have in hand has provided some reassurance, some important data have been delayed by the 
shutdown, and the soft data raise concerns. 
With regard to the downside risks, foremost is the protracted uncertainty surrounding the 
imposition of additional sizable tariffs on Chinese goods and in the automotive sector. This 
uncertainty has been a driver of equity market volatility and earnings disappointments, here and 
abroad, as well as a factor in capital spending plans. 
A related issue is that the slowdown of growth abroad now appears to be more persistent 
than initially assumed. Foreign growth in the fourth quarter fell short of potential for a third 
consecutive quarter. China faces challenges in achieving a soft landing in the shadow of a 
daunting credit bubble. And though earlier accounts of Germany’s slowdown alluded to 
transitory factors, there are growing concerns that China’s weakness is spilling over to 
Germany’s manufacturing sector more persistently. In Britain, the near-term risks associated 
with a no-deal Brexit are very elevated. And as Steve’s chart so colorfully illustrates, there is 
now a large number of possible outcomes that were not well anticipated a year ago, and the 
probability distribution is much more even across them. 
Financial conditions have tightened relative to their peak, although they have eased since 
December. A helpful new Tealbook exhibit summarizes several financial conditions indexes. 
After coming in around one standard deviation below their average level last year, the means of 
January 29–30, 2019
154 of 255
 
 
 
 
several financial conditions indexes have moved to about one-half standard deviation below 
average more recently. 
In addition, I am trying to understand what lesson to draw from the shutdown beyond the 
painful financial stress inflicted on so many families around the country. One could interpret the 
recent shutdown dynamics as increasing the odds that fiscal policy could revert to sequester 
levels in 2020 after the Bipartisan Budget Act expires. 
Against that mounting uncertainty, our goal now must be to protect the substantial 
progress we have made. Every indication is that the U.S. economy was in very good shape at the 
end of last year. Inflation remains close to our objective. Core PCE inflation came in at 1.9 
percent last year, and the Dallas trimmed mean measure showed inflation at 2 percent. That’s a 
notable achievement after many years of notable misses to the downside. 
Unemployment is at its lowest level in nearly 50 years. Americans who had become 
discouraged and left the labor market are coming back to work, and we’re seeing historically low 
unemployment among groups that have historically faced the biggest challenges, such as African 
Americans. The indications are that we’re near full employment but not clearly beyond it. 
Average hourly earnings rose 3¼ percent last year. That’s the best reading so far in this 
expansion but still below pre-crisis rates, and the staff estimates that labor productivity rose 
almost 2 percent last year. 
The latest data confirm that the labor market continues to expand strongly. Employment 
gains averaged more than 250,000 per month for the fourth quarter as a whole. The tick-up in 
the unemployment rate took place in the context of another upward move in participation. 
Importantly, unemployment insurance claims, which can be a particularly timely indicator of 
labor market conditions at turning points, hit another cyclical low in the latest reading. In 
January 29–30, 2019
155 of 255
 
 
 
 
short, the labor market is providing no evidence that the economy is in a recession or 
decelerating toward one. 
By contrast to that hard data, there is evidence of weakening sentiment among 
households and businesses. The ISM purchasing managers and new orders indexes took a 
notable step-down in December. The preliminary Michigan survey household sentiment index 
for January showed a notable decline, with the shutdown flagged by a number of respondents as 
having been an important factor. Importantly, a variety of indicators are signaling an increase in 
recession probabilities. In particular, a tested recession indicator—the yield curve slope—has 
started to indicate probabilities that are above their unconditional averages. 
The mounting downside risks raise the question as to whether it may become appropriate 
to consider taking out insurance before too long. The main case for doing so would be the 
well-known tendency for economic activity to decelerate rapidly in a nonlinear fashion that is not 
easily captured in our forecasting models. Further bolstering the case for taking out insurance is 
the proximity of interest rates to their effective lower bound in the context of a persistently lower 
neutral rate. The resulting limited amount of conventional policy space makes it all the more 
important to seek to prevent a recession. At this point, the risks of an overheated economy have 
fallen, asset prices are off their peaks, and inflation has been quiescent. For today, watchful 
waiting in the context of prudent risk management is an appropriate response. So far, the 
available hard data are providing no indication that the economy is downshifting significantly 
faster than anticipated in the SEP median. 
Moreover, the changes to forward guidance and balance sheet communications that we 
are embarking on tomorrow will meet or exceed, I hope, what markets have been expecting. It 
would be prudent to see what effects those changes have and how the outlook evolves before 
January 29–30, 2019
156 of 255
 
 
 
 
taking additional steps. That’s the lesson that emerges from the 2015–16 shock, when the 
economy ultimately came close to meeting the SEP forecast on activity and inflation because the 
Committee held the policy rate flat, providing a buffer against the shock, rather than sticking to 
its tightening plans. Of course, if model-based recession probabilities were to mount further, or 
if weakness began to be evident in hard data, such as claims and payrolls, we should be prepared 
to shift course. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Starting with the Ninth District economy, 
little has changed since December. Most sectors continued to do well, although agriculture 
remains weak and residential real estate and energy continued to slow. Manufacturers and 
retailers are generally optimistic about the outlook for 2019. Our survey evidence on wage 
growth in the District appears consistent with the national picture, with half the firms reporting 
growth a little bit above 3 percent. 
Indian country, which we have a lot of in our District, has been especially hard hit by the 
government shutdown. Government spending accounts for about 12 percent of all jobs in 
federally recognized reservations, and so it has been a disproportionate hit for their local 
economies. 
In regard to the national economy, not much has really changed in the data since the 
December meeting. Solid job growth, which is probably my biggest surprise, continues, and we 
had strong end-of-year retail sales. The jobs number in the December report and upward 
revisions for previous months suggested 760,000 new jobs were created in the fourth quarter, 
which is remarkable. There is no evidence that job growth is slowing. Even better news, as 
January 29–30, 2019
157 of 255
 
 
 
 
others have noted, is that the job growth is being fueled by growth in labor force participation, 
but the unemployment rate has essentially been flat for six months. 
Wage growth continues to rise slowly with average hourly earnings running above 
3 percent for the past two months, which, as others have noted, considering productivity, is 
consistent with our 2 percent inflation target. Seeing so many new jobs being created in the 
context of modest wage growth leads me to think that we have not yet reached maximum 
employment. And this being my 25th FOMC meeting, I think I’m ready to declare that I have no 
idea where maximum employment lies. [Laughter] 
You know, for me, what does “maximum employment” mean? It means, you go beyond 
it, and it leads to above-target inflation. Well, in the context of very stable inflation expectations, 
maybe at levels below 2 percent, and in the context of what President Daly reported, labor 
having relatively low bargaining power, how far away are we from the job market leading to 
above-target inflation? It seems like we’re a long way away from the labor market leading to 
above-target inflation. 
So the only thing I think I know for certain is that the employment to population (EPOP) 
ratio can’t be greater than 1. Other than that [laughter], I think that we may be a long way away. 
And people are choosing either not to leave the labor force or they’re choosing to reenter, but 
they are willfully making this choice. There is nothing that says that that is unsustainable to me. 
If wage growth picks up a little bit, maybe the labor supply response will be even stronger. 
There may be a lot more people who want to work. So I just think it’s more good news. When 
we talk about the policy go-round tomorrow, I think there is actually a very good story on why 
we should be taking the policy action that we’re taking tomorrow, rather than a concerning story. 
January 29–30, 2019
158 of 255
 
 
 
 
There are a few negative developments worth noting. As others have said, consumer 
confidence fell in January, according to the Michigan survey. It may just be a blip, but it’s worth 
paying attention to. Surveys also show some weakening of business sentiment. The ISM 
manufacturing index fell sharply in December. And notable declines in existing home sales in 
December suggest that the interest-sensitive housing sector has weakened further. 
In regard to inflation, not much has changed since the previous meeting. The risk-neutral 
probabilities on the inflation outlook are still tilted somewhat to the downside, and I do take the 
signals from the market-based measures of inflation compensation seriously. I think we should 
pay attention to those. 
Financial markets, as others have noted, have had large intermeeting swings in asset 
prices, though the net changes are very small. In addition to high volatility, other indicators are 
sending warning signals. The yield curve continues to be pretty flat. The 10–2 spread is around 
16 basis points. Corporate bond spreads remain higher than in the past few years, with some 
signs of stress for bonds with ratings below investment grade. And analysts’ estimates for the 
2019 S&P earnings have been slipping since mid-October. These signals suggest that the risks to 
the outlook are tilted somewhat to the downside. And, of course, others have noted sagging 
global economic growth—Europe, China, and Brexit are all downside risks that we’re all paying 
attention to. 
So, in summary: little changes in the hard data. My baseline outlook for the economy 
continues to be positive, similar to December. I continue to assess risks to the outlook as 
somewhat tilted to the downside, and those risks have perhaps increased slightly. Thank you, 
Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chairman Williams. 
January 29–30, 2019
159 of 255
 
 
 
 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away—I’m, of 
course, referring to our December FOMC meeting [laughter]. We were confronted with 
contrasting signals from strong U.S. economic data on the one hand and warning signs of an 
impending downturn from financial markets and abroad, on the other. Subsequent developments 
have shown that this was not a transitory fluke but represents an ongoing pattern. 
Global economic and financial developments have continued to send worrying signals, as 
many have mentioned. The tightening of financial conditions that started in the fall, has 
persisted. And although markets have rebounded in recent weeks, this is, in part, because of 
market participants’ view that the outlook for monetary policy has shifted. 
Investor sentiment remains fraught, with the record-breaking government shutdown 
adding to trade and geopolitical tensions to form a bubbling cauldron of political uncertainty. In 
addition, disappointing data from the euro area and China suggest a further step-down in global 
growth. In that regard, it is worth noting that the ECB has publicly acknowledged that the risks 
for euro-area growth are tilted to the downside. 
All of this is leaving an imprint on consumer and business sentiment in the United States. 
The tone of recent household and business surveys, as well as the Beige Book, all suggest 
declining optimism at home. The most recent business surveys in the Second District, for 
example, have definitely been more downbeat, and these developments have affected my outlook 
in two ways. First, I’ve shaved off 0.2 from my 2019 forecast for GDP growth, bringing it 
to2 percent. Now, this is still above my 1.8 percent estimate for potential growth, but by just a 
smidgen. Second, I now see a greater probability of the economy growing below its potential 
rate this year and inflation staying persistently below our longer-run goal. 
January 29–30, 2019
160 of 255
 
 
 
 
The most prominent downside risk relates to the tightening of financial conditions since 
September and the implications for the economy. Over the past several months, broad stock 
market indexes have dropped significantly, and corporate bond spreads have widened. It is true 
that levels of these measures still appear to be broadly accommodative. For example, price-to-
earnings ratios remain elevated, and corporate spreads are below their 2016 levels. 
Analysis from my staff, however, shows the changes in these measures rather than their 
levels provide the most useful information about future real GDP growth. So if you base it on 
the historical relationships between changes in key financial conditions and subsequent GDP 
growth, the tightening we’ve seen since September suggests a reduction in 2019 GDP growth of 
about ½ percentage point. 
Now, this point estimate obscures a far more important point, and that is that the effects 
of a large change in financial conditions on the economy are highly uncertain and depend on the 
root causes underlying the change. In particular, my staff examined the recent widening of credit 
spreads in the context our New York DSGE model, and this analysis follows very closely with 
what President Evans reported. I think our conclusions are very similar. 
Our analysis finds that, in the model that we use, there are two different shocks that can 
account for a widening in corporate bond spreads. The first type of shock is relatively benign 
and reflects some tightening of credit availability for firms; this results in a relatively modest and 
transitory decline in investment. A good example of this shock is a widening of corporate bond 
spreads that we saw back in the second half of 2015 and early 2016 that slowed growth 
somewhat relative to what would have occurred but didn’t stall the expansion that was under 
way. In that regard, I actually thought Steve’s presentation, which was exactly on the same 
experiment—we ran it with our model, and you ran it here with SIGMA. This was a bigger 
January 29–30, 2019
161 of 255
 
 
 
 
shock than we have experienced today, based on this analysis, but I find that the results here 
were very similar to what we found, in terms of, this is a shock that slowed growth but didn’t 
derail the economy. 
The second type of shock is far more severe, and it’s associated with a huge drop of 
investment and consumption. And this can be thought of as a broad risk-off shock that affects all 
decisions by households and businesses. It’s this second kind of shock, albeit at a much larger 
scale, that the model credits with causing the massive decline in output during the Great 
Recession. Now, using the information that we have today, a reasonable guess is, we’re 
experiencing the relatively benign type of shock. However, much uncertainty surrounds this 
guess, and should the severe shock turn out to be the dominant cause, the implications for 
economic growth will be much larger than the base case presented earlier. And, as President 
Evans said, in our model, as you get more data, it helps you differentiate as to what the source of 
the shock is. 
With regard to inflation, recent data continue to suggest inflation is still running slightly 
below target, and the decline in oil prices is putting downward pressure on our headline readings. 
While wage gains are consistent with inflation near our 2 percent goal, longer-run inflation 
expectations are generally on the softer side. And in this regard, I don’t think we’ll ever resolve 
the debate about whether it’s inflation expectations or breakevens, but I would remind us of the 
discussion of a few years ago that, if the risk premium around inflation has declined, that’s 
probably not a positive signal either. So I view the declines in the breakevens as still something 
we should pay attention to. 
Tepid growth and muted inflation in the global economy are associated with more 
accommodative policies abroad in the period ahead, and that increases the risk of a dollar 
January 29–30, 2019
162 of 255
 
 
 
 
appreciation. And, like Governor Clarida and President Kashkari, I just don’t see excessive 
inflation as a concern at this juncture. In fact, I’m more concerned that inflation may continue to 
undershoot our target, especially given strong evidence that inflation expectations, if anything, 
are anchored somewhat lower than we’d like and, of course, especially if growth slows further 
than I expect. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. And thanks, everyone, for your comments. I have 
some brief comments of my own. 
Like many of you, I also continue to see a reasonably favorable baseline outlook for this 
year against a background of crosscurrents, both foreign and domestic. On the by now well-
mentioned list of crosscurrents, I would include financial conditions that have tightened 
materially since September; continuing evidence of slowing global growth; and some unresolved 
government policy issues, including Brexit, the ongoing trade negotiations, and the effects and 
ultimate disposition of the partial government shutdown. Although these crosscurrents are not 
much reflected, yet, in the main macrodata that we’ve received, we have seen—despite the 
shutdown—a growing number of weaker readings on household and business surveys, and this is 
echoed in the reports that many of you around the table have delivered regarding uncertainty on 
the part of your contacts. 
In addition, some of us seem to have marked down a bit, at the past two meetings, 
estimates of growth. We mainly still see a solid outlook, although it feels like estimates are 
moving down toward the bottom end of the range of 2 to 2½ percent for 2019, and 
appropriately so. Even if growth remains modestly above potential, this year will suffer by 
comparison to last year’s strong growth of a bit above 3 percent. And, as some observed, that 
downshift may not feel particularly smooth. 
January 29–30, 2019
163 of 255
 
 
 
 
With the decline in growth and the buildup of downside risks, I see the risk-management 
calculus of policy as having changed from what was in effect for most of last year. For much of 
2018, I saw it as appropriate to think of our monetary policy as balancing two risks that were 
implicitly of roughly equal size and salience: the risk of too-high inflation versus the risk of 
prematurely terminating the expansion with too-tight policy. The picture today looks quite 
different. The performance of inflation was quite muted last year in the face of strongly pro-
cyclical fiscal policy, growth well above trend, and unemployment well below estimates of the 
natural rate. If inflation barely budged in that environment, it’s hard to see a significant risk that 
inflation will materially overshoot our target this year and certainly not in a way that threatens 
de-anchoring expectations to the upside. 
More generally, we clearly have yet to demonstrate that we can deliver on the oft-stated 
symmetric nature of our inflation goal. The last time we had two consecutive calendar years in 
which core inflation was at or above 2 percent was 2006 and 2007. I would also note, as 
Governor Clarida did, that over the past 25 years, core PCE inflation has averaged just 1.8 
percent. All that is to say that we should take the absence of significant, credible upside risk on 
inflation quite seriously. I would also mention that measures of elevated risk appetite from last 
year have reverted closer to their longer-run normal levels over the past month or so, removing 
another overheating kind of threat. 
On the other side of the risk-management equation, the risk of needlessly shortening the 
expansion has surely risen. Many market-implied probability estimates have risen—most 
notably, including the ones featured in the Tealbook, which have moved up close to 40 percent. 
Now, I know that those measures have a well-deserved reputation for false positives, as Steve 
mentioned, and without leaning on the most worrisome numbers, I think that the risk of recession 
January 29–30, 2019
164 of 255
 
 
 
 
has clearly moved higher—let’s say, the risk in the next couple of years—while the risk of 
excessive inflation has moved down. 
Together, those facts mean that the case that the economy demands further rate increases 
has weakened. So our individual communications with the public in recent weeks have sent a 
message of patience. It has calmed markets and may already be showing up in improved 
business sentiment, according to some of our contacts. But those contacts will need to be backed 
up by appropriate changes to our official statement as well as our policy stance. 
To sum up: We’ve covered a lot of ground in our policy normalization journey, with the 
funds rate now in the range of our estimates of its longer-run neutral value. This is a good place 
to wait and listen closely to the data. The baseline projection looks good, and there are no signs 
of an unwelcome rise in inflation. So, for now, we should patiently watch as the path of the 
economy becomes clear. 
And with that, let’s call it a day. Everyone travel safe, and we’ll get back together and 
reconvene at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Thanks very much. 
[Meeting Adjourned] 
 
January 29–30, 2019
165 of 255
 
 
 
 
January 30 Session 
 
CHAIRMAN POWELL.6 Good morning, everyone. Let’s get started. Thanks again for 
your thoughtful comments yesterday in our discussion about the operating regime and related 
topics. 
We’ve handed out a revised version of the statement that we intend to issue later today. 
And before we formally endorse this statement, let me try to address the main issues that were 
raised. The first was about the word “abundant” in the description of the operating regime. 
Some of you spoke in favor of this change, and others were opposed. I agree with the intention 
that we want to be as clear as we can in our description of the framework, and, particularly, we 
don’t want to leave any ambiguity about the fact that we will not operate close to the point of 
reserve scarcity. To this end, I propose that we modify the first bullet to emphasize that there 
will continue to be “an ample supply of reserves.” And I think this gives us the clarity desired 
without using terms that would be overly provocative. 
In addition, I’m going to say in my press conference statement that this framework that 
we’ve been using, and will continue to use, is sometimes known as a “floor system” or as an 
“abundant reserves system.” I need to say both of those things, just to remove all doubt. We’re 
not backing away from abundance here. We’re just clarifying. 
The second issue, which pertains to the second bullet, is that we want to revise the high 
hurdle in the 2017 principles that would seem to limit our scope to adjust the details of our 
approach to balance sheet normalization. And the challenge here is making this revision without 
signaling a change in our view that interest rate policy is and will remain our active tool for 
adjusting the stance of monetary policy. 
 
6 The materials used by Chairman Powell are appended to this transcript (appendix 6). 
January 29–30, 2019
166 of 255
 
 
 
 
A number of you offered suggestions on this front, but a constraint here is the structure of 
the last bullet in the 2017 balance sheet normalization principles. Given the structure of the last 
bullet of the 2017 principles, simply retracting and replacing the middle sentence of the 2017 
bullet is difficult, without having anything to say about the other two sentences in that bullet. 
Moving the first sentence or deleting the third could well raise questions about what these 
differences are meant to mean relative to the 2017 bullet. 
To help address concerns about the interpretation of the second sentence, I’m proposing 
that we delete the “However,” which was a ghost from a prior life, at the beginning of the 
sentence. That should help avoid a misinterpretation that the second sentence is describing an 
exception to the general rule that the federal funds rate is our primary tool. In my press 
conference, I’m really going to leave nothing to doubt and go through, essentially, every bit of 
this and say, “This is what we mean”—pretty clearly, I think. 
So it’s an important document, and, following our past practice, it will be helpful to 
indicate in the minutes that there was broad support among participants for the release of the 
statement. I’d like to call for a show of hands for those who can support this. I’d also like to ask 
if anyone has anything they’d like to say at this point, or do we wish to proceed directly to that? 
Would there be any comments? If not, then let’s see a show of hands. All those in favor? 
[Show of hands] Any opposed or abstentions? [No response] No. Thank you very much. 
So, as we discussed, that statement will be released at 2:00 p.m. alongside the usual 
policy statement. 
We will now move to Thomas’s monetary policy briefing. Thomas, over to you. 
MR. LAUBACH.
7 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be referring to the handout 
labeled “Material for the Briefing on Monetary Policy Alternatives.” 
 
7 The materials used by Mr. Laubach are appended to this transcript (appendix 7). 
January 29–30, 2019
167 of 255
 
 
 
 
As many of you remarked in your previous go-round, the contrast in recent 
months between mostly solid economic data and the signals from financial markets 
has been stark. On the one hand, the modal outlook for the U.S. economy—the 
staff’s as well as that of many outside forecasters and, judging by your comments, 
your own—is not much revised. To be sure, the tightening of financial conditions, on 
balance, since your September meeting and the weaker outlook for foreign growth are 
new headwinds, in addition to the anticipated waning of fiscal stimulus. The effects 
of these headwinds on the modal outlook are mostly reflected in a notable flattening 
of the expected federal funds rate path since your September meeting, while projected 
labor market and inflation outcomes are little changed. 
On the other hand, perceptions of downside risks to this benign modal outlook 
appeared to increase markedly through the end of the year, and financial markets 
showed heightened sensitivity to these risks over the early part of the intermeeting 
period. There are a number of risks one could list, including the possibility that 
economic activity abroad may decelerate more than expected and that ongoing trade 
tensions may generate larger effects than experienced so far. In an environment of 
heightened uncertainty, there is also a risk that a sharp pullback from risk-taking by 
investors, to the extent that they are pricing in a fear of recession, could turn out to be 
self-fulfilling. In fact, as shown in the upper-left panel, the probability of the 
economy entering a recession sometime over the next four quarters, as predicted by 
several models, has moved up sharply. As reported in a box in the Financial Market 
Developments section of the Tealbook, the probabilities predicted by models using 
yield spreads—either in isolation or in combination with the excess bond premium, a 
measure of the willingness of investors to bear credit risk—have now risen to levels 
not seen since 2006. 
In light of the dissonance between nonfinancial and financial developments in 
recent months, one might be skeptical of the predictions of models based exclusively 
on financial information. The upper-right panel reports the probability of the 
economy being in recession in 12 months’ time estimated from a model that includes 
17 indicators of both real and financial developments. The message is similar, even 
though the probability of recession has not moved up as abruptly in recent months as 
in the models shown to the left. This model, which the staff described in a memo sent 
to the Committee in March 2016, uses statistical techniques to determine the weights 
that should be given to various indicators for predicting recessions at different 
horizons. As it turns out, at longer horizons such as 12 months, it places the greatest 
weight on yield spreads and the excess bond premium. In other words, when looking 
beyond the next few months, the current strength of the real-side data doesn’t provide 
too much comfort. 
In light of these conflicting signals, how should you steer between the shoals of 
responding excessively to fickle financial markets, on the one hand, and missing the 
signals of an oncoming recession—one that might, perhaps, be avoidable if monetary 
policy reacts preemptively—on the other? The approach that alternative B takes is 
threefold: It remains positive about the modal outlook by asserting that the current 
favorable outcomes remain most likely. The reference to global economic and 
January 29–30, 2019
168 of 255
 
 
 
 
financial developments will likely be read as an implicit acknowledgment of 
downside risks, without yet expressing acute concern. And it describes the 
appropriate posture of policy in these circumstances as one of patience. 
The middle-left panel lists several reasons why the posture of patience may seem 
appropriate. By most estimates, the stance of policy is now close to longer-run 
notions of neutral—considerably more so than a couple of years ago. This diminishes 
the urgency to move in a particular direction. The second reason is that the risk of 
monetary policy remaining too loose seems to have diminished in recent months. As 
Bill mentioned, core inflation has, on balance, been slightly softer over the past six 
months than expected. Furthermore, the statement notes the sizable decline in far-
forward inflation compensation since October, shown by the black line in the panel to 
the right. Of course, inflation breakevens are hard to interpret, and, as was noted, 
such interpretations are model dependent. The green and red lines show estimates of 
expected CPI inflation, 5 to 10 years ahead, contained in breakeven inflation from 
two versions of the staff’s model: one in which inflation is expected to converge 
back to its sample mean in the very long run, the green line, and another in which the 
endpoint for inflation is allowed to drift over time, shown by the red line. The 
estimated levels are different, but they have remained broadly stable since October. 
However, a decline in inflation compensation attributed mostly to declines in risk 
premiums could also be concerning insofar as it signals that investors are keener to 
insure against low-inflation outcomes. 
Another concern about overly accommodative policy leading to overheating 
might have focused on stretched asset valuations. Just one example: The lower-left 
panel shows that the staff’s estimate of the equity risk premium has moved up 
substantially in recent months and is now quite close to its average since 2000. Taken 
together, these factors suggest that the case for some further gradual increases in the 
federal funds rate has weakened, consistent with the removal of this language from 
the statement. 
The amount of red ink in alternative B might raise concerns about whether, in 
response to such a statement, the public would perceive a significant change in the 
Committee’s reaction function. In the lower-right panel, I offer a few thoughts 
regarding such concerns. First, as the federal funds rate approached estimates of its 
longer-run neutral value, the extent, and even direction, of further rate adjustments 
were bound to become increasingly uncertain. Expectations for further rate hikes, 
your own included, had already declined by the time of the December meeting, and 
your statement would signal that the federal funds rate is, for now, in a good place. 
Moreover, your December statement had already highlighted that you would continue 
to monitor global economic and financial developments. With alternative B, you 
would communicate the point that these developments leave you comfortable with the 
current stance of policy, pending the arrival of more data. 
Alternative B would provide you with flexibility by leaving you with the option 
of moving in either direction if circumstances require. Were downside risks to 
increase or materialize, you might want to consider adopting language, such as in 
January 29–30, 2019
169 of 255
 
 
 
 
alternative A, that explicitly tilts the balance of risks. Conversely, if risks to the 
outlook were to recede and concerns about inflationary pressures or other signs of 
overheating increase, you could take another step in policy firming while maintaining 
a symmetric posture with regard to the outlook for policy. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That completes my prepared remarks; the December 
statement and the draft alternatives are shown on pages 2 to 7 of the handout. I will 
be happy to take any questions. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thanks. Any questions for Thomas? President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thomas, maybe I missed it, but the black line in the middle panel, on 
the right side—this is just the straight read of expected inflation? 
MR. LAUBACH. That is the model’s fitted value of break-evens. The model’s estimate 
has some fitting error. So the black line is the fitted value, which is a little different from the raw 
data. But then you decompose that fitted value into the expected component and the risk 
premium component. What I’m showing here is the expected component. 
MR. BULLARD. But the legend says “Expected inflation, assuming a random walk 
factor.” That’s the red line. 
MR. LAUBACH. Yes. 
MR. BULLARD. And then the other line just says “Expected inflation.” 
MR. LAUBACH. Sorry. Okay. Expected inflation gears down—so, expected inflation 
from the standard model, which is the one that assumes that there’s not a random walk factor but 
all factors are stationary. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay. Expected inflation with stationary factors. 
MR. LAUBACH. Yes. 
MR. BULLARD. Got you. Which do you think is the most meaningful of these three 
lines, or is this just meant to illustrate model uncertainty— 
January 29–30, 2019
170 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. LAUBACH. I thought it might be helpful to show these two different lines to 
illustrate the point that, of course, these decompositions are uncertain, and what conclusions you 
draw from the breakevens about what’s happened to expected inflation are model dependent. I 
personally have to confess that I have some sympathy for models that allow for a drift in the 
endpoints—in particular, in the inflation endpoint—because this model, for example, is 
estimated over a sample period that starts in, I believe, 1991. So that already excludes most of 
the high-inflation period of the ’70s and early ’80s. Nonetheless, whenever you estimate these 
models, assuming only stationary factors, you are baking into the model the property that, 
fundamentally, in the very long run, inflation is going back to the sample mean. And that may 
not be the right assumption. 
MR. BULLARD. Would it be reasonable to interpret that sample period as roughly 
corresponding to the inflation-targeting era in the United States—starting, let’s say, in 1995—
when the Committee hit the 2 percent inflation target, and it’s basically been around 2 percent 
since then? So the model based on stationary factors is something that might be the most logical 
one for that sample. 
MR. LAUBACH. Again, this is a close judgment call over the sample. 
MR. BULLARD. Right. 
MR. LAUBACH. You know, if the sample included the ’70s and ’80s, I would definitely 
say you want to have that shifting endpoint, because that’s a different period. 
MR. BULLARD. Right. 
MR. LAUBACH. From ’91 on, you can argue—you could go either way. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes, you’ve got the Committee naming an inflation target and 
implicitly having an inflation target dating from some point in the mid-’90s. That sounds like a 
January 29–30, 2019
171 of 255
 
 
 
 
stationary assumption to me. Yes. But it’s all very sensitive—disturbingly sensitive, you might 
say—to details of the assumptions. 
MR. LAUBACH. Yes. And, as you know, some years ago, we also showed a chart that 
had a comparison using various other models that are being estimated throughout the System. 
There are a number of them. And different models lead you to somewhat different places. 
But, again, the point that I highlight in my briefing is—as you can tell, the random walk 
version has a tendency to be a little bit more volatile—but in neither of these two versions would 
the model analysis say loudly that there’s been a decline in inflation expectations since, say, 
October. So it attributes most of the decline to risk premiums. 
MR. BULLARD. You say neither of these models with the black line goes down? 
MR. LAUBACH. No. Neither the red line nor the green line goes down a lot. Which 
means that both of these two models would say most of the decline was not in the expected-
inflation component— 
MR. BULLARD. One of these three models is wrong, and I just gave you an argument 
for why the stationary assumption might be the good logic. So the black line might be the right 
one. 
MR. LAUBACH. But the black line is the pure breakeven, so the black line is not the 
decomposition into the expected component on the one hand, and the risk premium, on the other. 
MR. BULLARD. Oh, okay. We’ll take this offline. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Great idea. Vice Chair. 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. I actually have a question on the first sentence of 
alternative B, and I’m looking for help from the staff to understand what different adjectives 
mean. And I think that the challenge we face today is, it’s the end of January, so when you talk 
January 29–30, 2019
172 of 255
 
 
 
 
about economic activity or economic data, where we’ve got a lot of data on Q4, and we’ve got 
some indications heading into Q1, but of course, we’re only one-third of the way into Q1, so are 
we talking about the fourth quarter, or are we talking about what we’re seeing going into the first 
quarter? 
I guess my question is, I look at the Tealbook—we had 2.8 percent as our view on what 
growth will be in the fourth quarter, slowing to the low 2s in the first quarter. So when I read 
this sentence, it says “indicates that the labor market has continued to strengthen.” That’s fine. 
We have the data there. “Economic activity has been rising at a strong rate.” Thinking about a 
forecast of low 2s for Q1—that’s the data stream we’re kind of seeing—is “strong” maybe a little 
too strong? Is a word like “solid” maybe more consistent with how we’ve talked about this? I’m 
just trying to understand how we’re viewing the incoming data in telling us what our “takeaway” 
is about the signal we’re getting about growth. 
MR. WASCHER. As you point out, the data we have, which are really just through the 
end of the year, look pretty strong. Our forecast is for it to slow down, but that’s really based a 
lot on a view that consumption was stronger than fundamentals in the fourth quarter and is going 
to come down closer to what fundamentals would imply in the first quarter. And that seems to 
be corroborated by some survey data. But we don’t really have any hard data, other than labor 
market data, for January yet. So I think it depends on whether you want to refer to the hard data 
that we have, which are just through the end of December, or whether you want to project your 
view about what things might be in the first part of this year. 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. I do think it’s just challenging, given we’re at the end 
of January and we’ve got these two different perspectives. 
MR. WASCHER. Yes, I agree. 
January 29–30, 2019
173 of 255
 
 
 
 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. I do think it says “information received.” Again, the 
labor market, I think, we’ve already highlighted independently as being very strong, which is 
absolutely true. I just worry a little bit that “economic activity has been rising at a strong rate” 
sounds like we’re maybe not paying attention to some of these other indicators. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Can I just jump in? As Thomas and Trevor know, I sent what 
I’ll call a pretty strong email to this effect, for just the reasons that John is saying. Was it 
yesterday morning? It seems like a year ago [laughter]—but the day before yesterday, maybe. 
You know, we can be technically right here and sound a little clueless, I think. I mean, literally 
everybody sees the first quarter coming down. I know we haven’t got the data; we were 
supposed to get them today. Our own forecast suggests it’ll be solid, not strong. I much prefer 
“solid” here. I think it’ll be noticed, and some will see it as—even though I understand the 
mechanics of it—an excessively positive outlook: Everything is just great. That’s my personal 
view. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Yes. Let me weigh in. I agree with that. And we have had data in 
January—we’ve had corporate earnings. Now, you watch corporate earnings—I used to watch 
corporate earnings for a living, you can’t hardly get away from it—and what you’re seeing is, 
economic data have weakened, according to what corporates are saying, and they’re giving 
guidance. I think those are data. So I hadn’t focused as much as—but I agree with that. I think 
“solid” would be a far wiser phrase to use—and much more consistent with what we’re seeing in 
a raft of corporate earnings reports and guidance from corporates informed by what they are 
seeing already in January. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. We had actually discussed bringing this up at the meeting. 
Now we’ve done that. Are there any solid objections or strong objections to this? [Laughter] I 
January 29–30, 2019
174 of 255
 
 
 
 
see a lot of nodding heads. I don’t see anyone saying—okay. All right. So, fine. Let’s assume 
that this is, then, changed from “strong” to “solid,” and let’s ask about other questions or 
comments on Thomas’s presentation. [No response] Thank you. Hearing and seeing none, let’s 
move to our go-round, and we’ll begin with Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as written. In 
paragraph 1, it does make sense to acknowledge the decline in breakeven inflation, as one of the 
rationales for our new language in paragraph 2 is muted inflation. As I indicated in the outlook 
go-round, I have some concern that while inflation expectations may be well anchored, they do 
not appear to me to be necessarily well anchored at our 2 percent target, but perhaps somewhat 
below that level. 
To me, a crucial consideration, as I assess what future adjustments to the target range for 
the funds rate may be appropriate, will be to assess, on the basis of the data available, if an 
adjustment to our policy rate will best serve the goal of attaining and sustaining both pillars of 
our dual mandate. While we can and, I suspect, will at future meetings debate the level at which 
inflation expectations are anchored, I do not think there’s broad support around the table for a 
policy that would seek to push inflation expectations materially lower than they are at present. 
At a minimum, to me, price stability requires not only that we actually achieve 2 percent core 
inflation at least once or, perhaps, more than once over the business cycle, but it also, at a 
minimum, requires that expectations of inflation, however proxied, do not decline from here. So 
to our list of u* and r* as variables that we’re learning about, we need, I think, to monitor closely 
a broad range of data on whether or not inflation expectations remain stable or are drifting lower. 
In terms of the balance of risk, I support deleting the existing reference in the last 
sentence of paragraph 2. That said, I would suggest that in the future, if we want to think of a 
January 29–30, 2019
175 of 255
 
 
 
 
“balance of risks” sentence, it could be replaced by a sentence along the lines of “Under 
appropriate policy, the Committee expects risks to the outlook to be balanced.” This would 
direct attention to the outcomes we seek to achieve with our policy conditional on a shock and 
not on the sign of the shock itself. 
Finally, in paragraph 2, I concur with the statement that the Committee will continue “to 
view sustained expansion of economic activity” as the most likely outcome. That said, I hold 
this view in part because of the easing in financial conditions that we have seen this year. As I 
pointed out in my outlook go-round, financial conditions are, perhaps surprisingly, slightly easier 
today than they were before our December meeting. I believe—and the New York primary 
dealer survey seems to support the view—that postmeeting communication via the minutes and 
public remarks given by many of us around the table have shifted market expectations of our 
future policy rate path in a direction that is supportive of this easing in financial conditions since 
December. 
In our statement today, we delete the declaration that “some further gradual increases in 
the . . . funds rate will be consistent with” our baseline view, and I support that deletion. The 
question then becomes, as Thomas mentioned, how should our new language—that we can be 
“patient” as we determine “what future adjustments to the . . . funds rate may be appropriate”—
be interpreted? I agree with some recent public comments by several participants at this meeting 
that there should be no particular bias toward raising or lowering rates until the data more clearly 
indicate the path of the economy, and I think this language does that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
January 29–30, 2019
176 of 255
 
 
 
 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written and with the 
change from “strong” to “solid.” The language in paragraph 2 substantially changes the policy 
narrative and better reflects, in my view, economic realities. 
Although downside risks are increasing, I believe that specifically stating that 
observation—as in alternative A, which I have some sympathy for—it may generate an 
overreaction, with the public thinking that we are more worried than we actually are. The 
possibility of interjecting additional uncertainty into an already uncertain environment should be 
avoided. 
But, in stepping back a bit from the details of the statement and even thinking about my 
own public comments, now and in the future, I question the use of the word “uncertainty” or 
“risk” in our current situation. My former academic department at Wharton was home to a group 
of really first-rate behavioral economists, and they would constantly chide me for the overuse or 
misuse of the words “uncertainty” and “risk” when, in fact, the situation was ambiguous. 
“Uncertainty” implies that one can assign probabilities to future events, whereas an ambiguous 
situation is one where even assigning probabilities or knowing all states of nature is impossible. 
I believe we are currently in the latter situation—simply unable to foresee possible future events, 
economic and political, let alone assign probabilities to them or fully understand their magnitude. 
Ambiguity is like being in a dense fog, and if you’re driving in such a fog, the best advice 
is to stop and pull over until the fog lifts, lest you run off a cliff or hit a wall. Patience is clearly 
called for right now with respect to our policy rate path, and I think we need to recognize that it’s 
time to pull over for a while. Thus, I think the language in alternative B is sufficient to assure 
markets that the Committee has no intention of overreacting when setting future monetary 
policy. And, again, I support it as written. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
January 29–30, 2019
177 of 255
 
 
 
 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B. Current 
circumstances justify being more patient, and flexible, until some of the uncertainties that have 
played havoc with financial markets are resolved. I am very much in favor of separating the 
announcement of the statement, which includes significant changes, from the full announcement 
of the balance sheet. Doing both at this meeting risks the possible perception that policy was 
being unduly responsive to recent market movements. 
I have also been surprised by how many journalists have attributed recent changes in Fed 
speeches as being responsive to political pressures. A public perception that the FOMC is 
unduly responsive to market or political pressures is clearly undesirable, now and in the future. 
Even with separation of the monetary policy statement from the balance sheet normalization, 
there are still significant communication challenges. In terms of the balance sheet, I have great 
difficulty linking recent financial market perturbations to our balance sheet policy—which, after 
all, was announced and implemented some time ago, as I discussed yesterday. But I do worry 
that without significant message crafting at the press conference and in subsequent 
communications, many market participants will assume we are done reducing accommodation 
for this cycle. Again, I believe that when some of the uncertainties are finally resolved, it is 
quite likely we will see growth resuming above potential, consistent with the Tealbook and 
private forecasts. 
It would be useful if we had an SEP this meeting, because it would make clear that a 
pause does not mean we are necessarily done, especially if the financial market downturn and 
other uncertainties turn out to be fleeting. As an aside, I think we should consider having an SEP 
January 29–30, 2019
178 of 255
 
 
 
 
at every meeting. That could have significant benefits, especially now that press conferences 
occur after every meeting. 
I think it is important that our communication from this meeting be somewhat nuanced—
supportive if the economy needs it—but clarify that we have not made a sudden and dramatic 
shift from our assessment of the economy or appropriate policy in our December SEP to a 
current stance that could be viewed as signaling no further hikes. Such an impression would 
leave us in a very difficult position later this year if, indeed, the financial markets recover and the 
economy continues to grow strongly. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B. That said, I continue to 
have reservations about the language in paragraph 1, although I will not be suggesting any line 
edits, as the one I was going to suggest has been already adopted. So I strongly support “solid.” 
With regard to the stance of policy, I agree that we can be patient in determining further 
adjustments in interest rates. Now, I arrive at this view for several reasons. First, as I indicated 
yesterday, the tightening in financial conditions since September, the uncertainty about economic 
policy, weaker business and consumer sentiment, and slower foreign growth all weigh on the 
outlook. 
In addition, inflation data have been coming in soft, and there are several headwinds that 
I documented yesterday—and many did—that are likely to put additional downward pressure on 
the readings. I’m also taking signal from the fact that we’ve been unable to keep inflation 
sustainably at 2 percent despite ongoing improvements in labor markets and real GDP growth 
well above our estimates of its sustainable pace. And, of course, there are several rate increases 
already in the pipeline that have yet to fully affect the economy. So against this backdrop, I 
January 29–30, 2019
179 of 255
 
 
 
 
think pausing the path of policy adjustments and assessing what future adjustment to our policy 
stance will be needed are completely appropriate. 
It’s also worth noting—and President Mester did a nice job on this yesterday—that one 
way to look at the current conditions is, this is exactly what we expected to happen. We raise 
interest rates, and the economy slows to a sustainable pace. Relative to my forecast last year, 
we’ve just arrived here a lot more quickly than I expected, and that’s in part due to the shocks 
we’ve mentioned—slower global real growth and rising uncertainty—but also due to the 
tightening in financial conditions, which were more responsive to these developments than I 
factored in. I had taken some signal from the fact that they hadn’t responded very much early in 
our tightening cycle, then responded a lot later in the cycle. So as it’s difficult to foresee fully 
exactly how these shocks will play out in the economy, and financial markets are still digesting 
our previous actions, it’s, again, appropriate to wait and decide on any further adjustments. 
I think the final part of my logic is that—and this is something President Kashkari 
pointed to yesterday—with inflation lower than we want it to be, we have a little room to run. 
That is, we have a little room to determine what full employment really is and whether we’ve 
reached it. 
With all of those arguments, you might ask why I have any reservations about the 
statement. So let me turn to that. The details of the rationale for altering our stance of policy 
that I just referenced, which we referred to yesterday in our discussion and which Thomas nicely 
laid out, are not fully transparent in the statement. I’m not saying the statement doesn’t have 
enough room for everything, but it’s not logically laid out for me, at least in my mind. 
I still see a fairly sharp disconnect between the data description in paragraph 1, which 
looks very similar—with two exceptions: the “solid” now, which I think is a great addition, and 
January 29–30, 2019
180 of 255
 
 
 
 
the mention of inflation expectations, which is also a great addition. It’s otherwise pretty similar 
to the ones we’ve had since August, but then paragraph 2 is quite a bit different. We’ve moved 
from “further . . . increases” to “patient” in “adjustments.” So I think these additional changes 
have the potential to be misinterpreted as reacting a lot to financial conditions, and perhaps even 
overreacting, even though we’ve mentioned global developments and muted inflation pressures. 
This doesn’t suggest a change in the statement. It just means—and I think, Chair Powell, 
you’ve already referenced this—there’ll be a lot of pressure at the press conference to explain the 
links and the logic that we’ve gone to. But I think it will also mean that, in the intermeeting 
period, all of us around the table will have to continue to beat that drum, if you will, and explain 
and reexplain these messages. And especially in the context of releasing the balance sheet 
normalization principles, these are just going to be things that will probably require, if our 
previous communications are any indication, that we spell it out, say it again, and spell it out 
again so that we can ensure that the rationale we have in mind is the one that is the main public 
narrative. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I generally support alternative B for today. 
I would like to bring one phrase from alternative A into alternative B, which is the “if any” 
clause in the sentence in paragraph 2: “In light of global economic and financial developments 
. . . what, if any, adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate may be appropriate to 
support these outcomes.” This was in an earlier version but was removed later. I think it would 
give a better signal about where we are, and a better signal about data-dependent policy. We 
could raise the rate further, but we would have to see the data surprise to the upside. 
January 29–30, 2019
181 of 255
 
 
 
 
I agree with President Daly that a key challenge here at this meeting is going to be that 
the forecasts of the U.S. economy haven’t really changed very much, but our policy setting 
seems to be altered. I think that we’ll all get a lot of questions on that, and I think the tension 
between the first paragraph and the second paragraph just illustrates that situation. I think the 
case for a more dovish policy is that inflation readings have been muted and inflation 
expectations arguably have dropped. 
The overall message, I think, should be that we have successfully normalized policy in 
the United States—if not completely, then substantially. We used the fact that the real economy 
surprised to the upside during 2017 and 2018. We took that opportunity to raise the policy rate 
some 200 basis points and allowed for a reduction in the size of the balance sheet. Now that the 
real economy looks set to decelerate in 2019, it’s time to move to a data-dependent strategy, and 
to wait and see the effects of previous policy changes. As we all know, there are long and 
variable lags in monetary policy, and it could be that those will manifest themselves in 2019 and 
2020. 
Like Governor Clarida, I prefer no presumption about the future direction of the policy 
rate. I think this addition of the “if any” clause would help with this. I’ve long wanted to get 
away from any presumption of penciling in rate increases or projecting rate increases before we 
know what is actually going to happen in the economy, and I think, especially at this juncture, it 
would be good to get into that mode. 
The U.S. policy rate, in my opinion, is very high by international standards, particularly 
when compared with Europe and Japan, where policy rates remain negative. I see our current 
policy rate setting as mildly restrictive. I think the global safe real rate, by any back-of-the-
envelope or model-based-type calculation, is still somewhat negative. Even if you think it’s 
January 29–30, 2019
182 of 255
 
 
 
 
about zero and you add 2 percent for our inflation target, that would still give you a neutral 
policy rate of 2 percent or maybe somewhat less than that. So we’re above that right now. I 
don’t think we’re far enough above it to be terribly restrictive, but it’s mildly restrictive. I think 
it’s unwise to be mildly restrictive when inflation readings are just at or below our target for 
inflation and in a situation where we’ve missed inflation to the low side since 2012. The Dallas 
Fed trimmed mean inflation rate is right at 2 percent, but the Committee’s preferred measure, the 
core PCE inflation rate, is just a little bit below target. 
Because I think we’re mildly restrictive in this situation—the economy is decelerating, 
and we’re below target on inflation—this has driven market-sensitive measures of inflation 
expectations to uncomfortably low levels. I’m hopeful that these measures will rebound higher 
with this statement today and our policy through the first half of 2019. I think that that will be 
helped with this essential signal that normalization is either over, or nearly over, in the United 
States. 
I continue to think that inflation expectations are the key variable for this Committee and 
that we’re handling it badly in our policy analysis. This morning, I saw the Conference Board’s 
survey of inflation expectations, which reinforced my ideas that these surveys are way off. The 
current expectation for inflation is 4½ percent, according to the Conference Board’s survey, and 
that is the lowest level it’s been since the recession. So it was cited as evidence that inflation 
expectations are coming down—that these expectations had come all of the way down to 
4½ percent instead of anywhere close to what professional economists would say. 
I also think that these term structure models, as was indicated in Thomas’s presentation, 
tend to push a lot of the variation in the data into the term premium, which is really just a noise 
term. And because of the underlying assumptions, they tend to say that the inflation expectations 
January 29–30, 2019
183 of 255
 
 
 
 
are never moving, and it’s only the noise term that’s absorbing all of the variation in the data. I 
don’t think that’s helpful for our Committee. I think we want to take signals from the market 
about what they think about our own credibility and our own policy. 
A possible issue ahead is the dot plot, as mentioned by President Rosengren. I have a 
very different policy recommendation here from that of President Rosengren. I think we should 
eliminate it entirely. I think that the SEP forecasts of the federal funds rate were very useful 
when the policy rate was close to zero. It did a good job of helping the Committee send the 
signal that we were going to be lower for longer. If you remember, right after the recession and 
in the aftermath, markets continually thought we were going to raise the policy rate just 6 
months, 9 months, or 12 months in the future. We had a lot of trouble communicating that we 
thought it was going to be a much longer time frame than that. By putting the dot plot out, we 
could show that our expectation was that we would be at the lower bound for a lengthy period. 
That re-centered the debate to a point of liftoff, which went on for years, and then we finally did 
lift off. 
So I think all of that was successful in having the SEP. It’s much less useful now when 
future policy is much less clear. I see the essential problem with the SEP is that, as we’ve 
experienced it, it is creating too much of a focal point for markets. It is treated as a promise by 
markets. It puts the Committee into a box—“you said you were going to raise the rate at some 
point in the future”—and then we’re being forced to follow through at a time, possibly, when 
data are not supporting us as much as we would like. 
So my proposal would be to eliminate this process and simply allow participants to give 
their own forecasts, including of policy rates, in speeches and interviews—something that we do 
already. One advantage of this kind of approach is that people can update their forecasts and 
January 29–30, 2019
184 of 255
 
 
 
 
their policy rate views more regularly. You’re not wedded to this quarterly prescription. I think 
we could promote this as being more transparent, not less transparent—more agile because 
you’re able to react to data more quickly if you want to. And it would provide less of a fixed 
focal point for markets where the Committee has made an implicit promise about what it’s going 
to do in the future, which may turn out to be one that the Committee does not want to follow 
through on when you get to those dates in the future, depending on how the data have come in. 
I think this process would better reflect the true uncertainty regarding future policy, 
which is what we really want to get to. The SEP is communicating too much certainty about 
future policy. We would like to get to a regime where we can convey that, well, there’s a lot of 
uncertainty, and it’s changing as the data are rolling in every day. 
On the balance sheet statement, we’ve already voted on it. My preferred approach, as I 
said yesterday, is no statement, but I can support the statement that we have this morning. I 
think the most important thing in the intermeeting period is to begin to test the waters on likely 
aspects of the March announcement, which is coming and which, I think, is jelling together here. 
I think there is substantial consensus. Of course, we would say no final decisions have been 
made, and we would reserve the right to have the March meeting be a live meeting and make 
final adjustments. But the parameters of the balance sheet program are coming together, and I 
think it’s fine to try to float some of the ideas during the intermeeting period. A lot of these 
numbers are out there anyway, and a lot of the key ideas are out there anyway. 
Finally, on naming a specific date for the end of the balance sheet runoff, the date-
contingent policy, I again urge the Committee to maintain optionality. It’s possible you would 
get to the third quarter of this year, and the data are pretty good, reflecting a lot of good things 
happening in the U.S. economy. We might want to raise the policy rate in response to that, and 
January 29–30, 2019
185 of 255
 
 
 
 
then are we really going to want to delay the end of the balance sheet runoff in that environment? 
I’m not sure what we’d really do in that environment. I think it’d be better to just say “in the 
second half of this year” or “later this year” and then let the Chair pick an appropriate moment to 
go ahead and end the runoff of the balance sheet. 
And then, John Williams, obviously, is not going to go to central bank heaven, as he said 
today. [Laughter] 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. It’s “purgatory.” [Laughter] 
MR. BULLARD. I mean, having worked with him for years, I know he’s committed 
way too many sins to make it there [laughter], but I intend to make it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B. My modal outlook is for 
economic growth and employment growth to slow from their above-trend paces and for 
underlying inflation to remain near our 2 percent goal. And, to achieve these outcomes, the 
funds rate will likely have to move up a bit more later this year. There are considerable risks to 
this outlook, however, and considerable uncertainty regarding this policy rate path. The federal 
funds rate is now at the bottom of the range of estimates of its longer-run neutral rate. Recent 
increases are still working themselves through the economy. Balance sheet normalization is 
continuing. And despite the tightness in labor markets, there’s little sign that inflation is on the 
verge of rising appreciably. This gives us an opportunity to take the time to assess incoming 
economic and financial information and what it means for the medium-run outlook and risks. 
I appreciate the revisions made to alternative B between the first draft and the current 
draft. The changes made to the forward guidance in paragraph 2 compared with our December 
statement seem appropriate to me at this time. I think the language strikes the proper balance, 
January 29–30, 2019
186 of 255
 
 
 
 
indicating not only that we’re going to be on hold as we assess economic and financial 
conditions, but also that further adjustments may still be needed in order to support our dual-
mandate goals. 
Now, I suspect it may be interpreted as a longer pause than is likely given my forecast, 
but given there’s considerable uncertainty associated with that policy rate projection, I don’t see 
that interpretation as an issue at this point. We will be releasing new projections in March, and I 
think those projections will be informed by the incoming economic and financial information 
received between now and then. It’s either going to confirm the modal outlook or lead to 
changes in our anticipated policy rate path because the outlook has changed. Either way, I think 
our current policy stance and the current statement put us in a good position. 
Nonetheless, at times, we have tended to have a “Hotel California” problem with our 
statement, [laughter] so I think it’s good for us to think at this point and ahead of time about how 
the “patient” language could be changed, depending on how the outlook changes. Presumably, if 
uncertainty abates, and the outlook suggests that a further increase in the policy rate will be 
needed, we’re going to need to remove that “patient” language from the statement at least a 
meeting or two before the expected action, and we should be thinking now about what would 
replace it. On the other hand, if our forecast suggests that we’re going to be on hold for the 
foreseeable future or that the next move may be a decrease rather than an increase, our language 
is going to need to express this as well. So, again, thinking ahead of time seems like a prudent 
thing to do. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as amended today. I 
continue to be highly uncertain about the outlook for the U.S. economy, and I must admit, I am 
January 29–30, 2019
187 of 255
 
 
 
 
glad I don’t need to make an updated SEP submission today. In the previous meeting, when we 
were asked for views, I was one to raise my hand and thought it was a good idea to write an SEP 
forecast at every meeting—all eight. I must admit, I am not so sure now, and I’m glad to have 
the time, certainly this year. 
The reasons for the uncertainty are the broad categories we’ve talked about. I won’t go 
through all of them: decelerating global growth, compounded by trade tensions, and weakness in 
economically sensitive industries such as housing and airlines, and the list is lengthening for me 
in looking at corporate earnings reports. The January experience suggests that more 
economically sensitive industries are cautioning about sluggishness. 
On financial conditions, while there’s been some improvement in the past few weeks, I 
do believe that if corporate earnings weaken or decelerate, I think there’s a reasonable 
probability, as we get later in the year, we may see financial conditions tighten again. But, of 
course, time will tell. 
The scenario, as I mentioned yesterday, that I’m watching most carefully is one in which 
sluggish economic conditions plus a lack of business pricing power, lead to margin erosion and 
profit deceleration and revisions, and that in turn having a chilling effect on cap-ex and, with a 
lag, ultimately hiring. I combine this with the fact that corporate debt is at relatively high levels 
by historical standards, and corporate activism—shareholder activism—is at historically high 
levels, which means corporate executives are going to take action much more quickly than in the 
past in the face of earnings deterioration. 
While expansions—this has been discussed—may not die of old age, I think it does pay 
to recognize where we are in the economic cycle, and I believe we are relatively late. And the 
Fed has raised rates now nine times over the past three years or so. 
January 29–30, 2019
188 of 255
 
 
 
 
I do believe that, in view of all of these uncertainties, the FOMC should be patient and 
refrain from taking any action on the federal funds rate until the situation becomes clear. 
Because the outlook for inflation, as many have said, is likely to remain muted, we have the 
luxury of being patient. I also think patience maximizes the chance that the economy will 
stabilize. It gives us the best opportunity to extend this expansion, and, if it turns out that the 
economy is stronger as the year goes on than I believe is likely to be the case, we’ll have the 
ability to resume raising the federal funds rate later this year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’m comfortable with alternative B. The data 
remain good, but uncertainty has risen, and the risks have shifted to the downside. The upside 
case seems less likely, and there’s a greater chance than before that something really bad will 
happen, especially in the political arena, domestically or internationally. 
So if there was ever a good time to take the last remnant of forward guidance out of the 
statement, this is it. In view of the uncertainties in the current domestic and international 
economic environments—the government shutdown, our lack of data, China negotiations, the 
yield curve, the timing regarding trade deal approvals, and Brexit—it seems appropriate to take a 
wait-and-see attitude. A lot could happen in the first quarter. 
I hope market expectations haven’t overadjusted. I agree that the expected federal funds 
rate path should now be south of where it was at our previous meeting, but I suspect the 12-
month probability of an increase is still north of zero, especially given the most recent hard data. 
While I’m okay with its use today, the word “patient” runs the risk of becoming another 
form of forward guidance, and I would eliminate it as quickly as possible, perhaps when some of 
these near-term risks dissipate. I hope that’ll be soon. We should emphasize that patience 
January 29–30, 2019
189 of 255
 
 
 
 
reflects data dependency at a time when the environment is particularly unsettled, not as a 
message that we’re necessarily done. 
We also risk appearing to overrespond to markets. Changing the language so 
significantly, including putting out a revised statement of normalization principles, will be 
dissected endlessly. I know we’re actually responding to increased uncertainty, but some might 
ask, if we had seen the same data and markets had been flat, would we have signaled a change in 
policy so clearly? We need to tell our story well and tie it compellingly to the increase we all see 
in uncertainty—or, President Harker, in ambiguity. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B. I think we ended up 
in a good place, as alt-B conveys an appropriate risk-management response to the policy 
environment we face today. In particular, paragraph 2 does a good job of balancing the still-
quite-positive base-case scenario against the uncertainty and downside risks posed by recent 
global and financial market developments. 
When faced with such ambiguity, patience in making policy adjustments is a classic risk-
management response that the Committee has chosen many times in the past. This is not an 
unusual policy strategy for the Fed. Indeed, today’s call may be more straightforward than in 
some previous cases because, even with the unemployment rate at 3.9 percent, inflationary 
pressures currently are AWOL. I got that term from Vice Chairman Williams. It’s kind of 
appropriate. I think the acknowledgment of softer financial market inflation compensation in 
paragraph 1 and muted inflation pressures in paragraph 2 were good additions that support this 
point. 
January 29–30, 2019
190 of 255
 
 
 
 
That said, we still have a tricky balancing act ahead of us given the uncertainties we face. 
I agree with President Daly that paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 display some tensions. At one 
point, I was going to suggest inserting language in paragraph 2 along the lines that the current 
economy displays strong fundamentals but has risks to the downside. 
It’s unclear whether we’re entering a period of low short-term r*, as I talked about 
yesterday, or if we’re simply feeling our way through a more benign deceleration of real GDP 
growth back to its potential rate, as in our baseline projection. We need to think ahead about 
how we will determine which scenario we are facing, as well as the appropriate policy response 
for that scenario. Waiting may turn out to be easy. We could see labor markets stabilizing, in 
line with output growth decelerating to trend, with the unemployment rate staying in the 3¾ to 4 
percent range and inflation remaining near our 2 percent symmetric objective. Such outcomes 
could suggest that our current policy setting would be adequate for quite some time. I do think 
that, as President Mester said, we should think about the term “patient” and how we get away 
from that term at the appropriate time. It will probably be more challenging than many cases. 
But what if the data move differently? I first wondered about what kinds of 
developments would lead us to exit the patient mode and resume rate hikes. One reason would 
be if inflation compensation moved back toward mid-2000s levels and core PCE inflation rose 
above 2¼ percent, with further increases likely in store. Such clear emergence of rising 
inflationary pressures would be a signal that monetary policy was still accommodative. 
Another case would be if we saw a few more jobs reports like the one in December and 
the unemployment rate also moving down to 3½ percent. It would be important to carefully 
assess the degree to which these developments might reflect structural labor market 
January 29–30, 2019
191 of 255
 
 
 
 
improvement, as opposed to being a harbinger of inflationary pressures. But it seems likely that, 
in this case, we would also surmise that our policy stance was still somewhat accommodative. 
That’s one side of the coin. What about the other side? What might lead us to markedly 
lower rates? Sadly, this decision might be more straightforward. If the data flow indicated 
greater economic distress than just our expected deceleration to trend growth, we’d have to act. 
And while predicting turning points is nearly impossible, once in motion, we all recognize the 
kinds of recessionary dynamics that would clearly lead us to aggressively provide more 
accommodation. 
Finally, what about conditions that suggest more marginal policy moves? Ironically, 
decisions about these might be more difficult to settle on. But as long as the outlook has good 
labor market outcomes with strong consumer fundamentals and inflation in line with our 
2 percent symmetric objective, we’re looking at a pretty good outcome. I know we will agonize 
over the policy decisions. That’s what we do. But we should be pleased to be in that situation. 
In sum, I support alt-B as written. I think taking a pause in the rate cycle is appropriate 
risk-management policy at this juncture. And I hope, as we move through this period, the more 
benign scenarios will prevail. 
I just want to say, since President Bullard brought it up, on the dot plot, I feel very 
strongly that the dot plot is good value added. And if we ever think about taking that away, 
please alert me. I have very strong comments about that. [Laughter.] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B. We’ve made 
substantial progress in the normalization process for monetary policy, and I believe we’re 
currently at a point where we should carefully assess a range of shifting economic forces, 
January 29–30, 2019
192 of 255
 
 
 
 
including the effects of waning fiscal stimulus and past rate increases in combination with 
elevated downside risks. With high levels of employment and low inflation, we can afford to be 
patient and flexible in judging the need for further policy adjustments. 
The addition of the word “patient” did give me, like some others, some pause. To me, 
it’s a new form of forward guidance, and it strongly conveys that the Committee is unlikely to 
make a change in the funds rate in upcoming meetings. That may be appropriate. So while I 
agree with today’s story line that we should characterize our stance as being one of a patient 
approach, I’m not sure that such a description will be valid in April or June. As President Mester 
suggested, I think we’ll need to begin thinking about what kind of a transition we’d make from 
that. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the policy action recommended in 
alternative B. The economy is close to, if not at, the Committee’s target levels, and this tells me 
that we should let the economy stand on its own without a push from monetary policy. At 
present, the federal funds rate is currently at the lower end of the range of the long-run rate, as 
reported in our December Summary of Economic Projections. I think it is prudent to see how the 
economy responds before making further adjustments. This, to me, is what patience looks like. 
There’s remarkably broad support across my contacts and directors in the Sixth District 
for what is proposed here. Perhaps the best evidence of this is the 28–0 vote of my Branch 
directors in favor of this policy decision. This is the first time anyone at my Bank can remember 
a unanimous vote on anything. And, as a reminder, our vote last time was 15–14. So it seems 
we’ve moved to a pretty sweet spot. 
January 29–30, 2019
193 of 255
 
 
 
 
My only comment on the specific language is that I’m not crazy about the use of the 
phrase “as the most likely outcomes” in paragraph 2. I prefer to use “as likely to persist” instead. 
I think this better conveys the spirit of what the Committee is trying to communicate, but this is 
not a major point. Overall, like others, I would ultimately like to see the removal of as much 
forward guidance as possible. We’ve been moving in that direction, and I definitely appreciate 
that and hope it continues. And on this point, I would just say that I agree with Presidents 
Barkin, George, Mester, and others about the use of the word “patience.” It is a form of forward 
guidance, and I think that we should think about how we get that out as soon as possible. But I 
do understand why we have it in right now. 
Finally, I would like to double down on President Daly’s point on repetition in this 
ambiguous time. I was going to say “uncertain,” but President Harker scared me. [Laughter] In 
this ambiguous time, complete clarity on what we’re doing is critical, and repetition, in my view, 
is the best way to accomplish this. We should be repetitive until it gets boring and until we’re 
mocked. And this will be a sign of success. [Laughter] Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Chairman Powell. I support alternative B. Currently 
available economic data have not changed my outlook significantly from the December meeting, 
and overall, the economy has been performing well, with strength in household and business 
spending outside of residential real estate activity. We continue to see a strong labor market, 
with over 312,000 jobs created last month and an increase in the labor force participation rate. 
Borrowing costs for residential mortgages have declined since the previous meeting, but reports 
indicate a continued softening in existing residential sales data. 
January 29–30, 2019
194 of 255
 
 
 
 
While the national economic numbers provide evidence of a continued strong and 
growing economy, there are factors that weigh on my assessment, as I noted yesterday: the 
global economy, trade uncertainty, and agriculture. In addition, as many of us noted yesterday, 
the outlook for inflation and inflation expectations is not entirely clear. Will the soft inflation 
data from the second half of last year prove longer lasting, or was it temporary? How should we 
interpret the decline in inflation compensation in financial markets? These are all challenging 
questions. And, as I noted during the December meeting, although it’s challenging to determine 
what the new normal and the new neutral rate should be in this post-crisis environment, in my 
view, the current data indicate, or could indicate, that we’re very close to that neutral rate. 
At this point, unless we see significant changes in data, it makes sense to be patient and 
to continue to observe economic conditions and the effect of recent rate increases, although I do 
agree with others regarding the ongoing use of this term as conditions change and our intentions 
also change as a result of those data. This is particularly important as we see conflicting signals 
and mixed data from other sources, like from financial markets and consumer and business 
sentiment. But being patient at this time could provide us with the opportunity to consider and 
determine the appropriate pace of future actions as warranted by data available at that time. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as amended, but 
there is one aspect that does give me pause. I am always an enthusiastic supporter of providing 
additional clarity and certainty about our strategy to markets and the public, particularly when 
uncertainty about our strategy appears to have contributed to turbulence, whatever some may 
think about the reasonableness of that reaction. I am less enthusiastic in expressly tying the 
January 29–30, 2019
195 of 255
 
 
 
 
policy rate decision closely to financial developments, at least in these circumstances, as we do 
now in the new final sentence of paragraph 2 of alternative B. 
In the past, references to the effect of financial developments have often been tightly tied 
to their eventual effect on economic developments and the dual mandate. And in the current 
statement, that link, though it will probably appear apparent to the casual reader, will, I think, 
appear a little loose to the close reader. Now, we learned in December that the number of very 
casual readers of our statement seems to have increased of late [laughter], and I’m not 
advocating or even suggesting a change in language at this point, but rather making a 
communication point, about all of us, as we talk about what it is that we’ve done today and about 
the language in the statement. Paying due attention to those close readers and their interpretation 
of what we’re saying, I don’t think we want to signal a willingness to respond to financial 
markets beyond their effect on the dual-mandate variables. 
I fully support the removal of forward-guidance language. That change has been well 
telegraphed. It’s the best expression of our consensus of the Committee. Not doing it now 
would likely cause some confusion. That said, I myself retain more of an upward bias to rates 
rather than being purely neutral. I view my outlook for real GDP growth as being consistent 
with further rate hikes, although I’m very willing to allow risk-management considerations to 
determine the timing of those future hikes. 
One factor underlying my bias toward further rate hikes is my lack of confidence in 
inflation as the dispositive indicator of the cyclical state of the economy. As I’ve discussed 
before, no doubt to the point of boredom—soon Vice Chairman Williams is going to forbid me 
to talk not only about airplanes, but also about this point—I believe that confidence in the Fed is 
an important factor in anchoring inflation near 2 percent. And, as such, one of the major signals 
January 29–30, 2019
196 of 255
 
 
 
 
inflation is sending is the public’s expectation of the Federal Reserve’s competence and 
commitment rather than merely whether the economy is running hot or with excessive slack. If 
we rely too much on inflation as the sole, or perhaps even the prime, indicator of slack, we run 
the risk of following our own tire tracks in a blizzard—such as the one that the meteorologists 
tell us is raging outside [laughter]—into the barrow pit on I-80 in the middle of Wyoming, 
between Laramie and Rawlins, which is a traumatic experience. 
On the SEP, at the risk of appearing impractical, I actually would like to support 
President Bullard’s point, as long as it’s been raised. I understand the obstacles to eliminating 
the dots. It would require the Chairman to don a brown robe and stand up at the press conference 
and say, “These are not the droids you want.” [Laughter] But I think—and I don’t think I’m the 
only person on the Committee who thinks—that the dots painted us into a corner in December, 
and the Committee took a decision that it would not otherwise have taken, at least as I listened to 
the discussion around the table, had it not been that, at some time in July, one of us had Wheaties 
instead of Post Toasties for breakfast and moved the majority from three to four. And that fourth 
may well have moved back to three by the time of December, for all we know. But markets took 
that, beginning in July or August—whenever it was—as a commitment that we would act in 
December on the basis of no one’s decision or, really, even any sort of consensus forecast. 
I agree with President Bullard that the dots served a very useful purpose when they were 
introduced and served a useful purpose for a long time. And I worry now that—I mean, I began 
these comments by saying that I always support providing additional certainty about our 
strategy—but I think that the dots now provide specious certainty to people who want to read 
more into them than we want them to mean. But we don’t have a way of making them mean 
only what we intend. So, all of that said, I understand that, given the signal it would send about 
January 29–30, 2019
197 of 255
 
 
 
 
secrecy and closed rooms, it may be impossible to get rid of them. But I do think that it’s an 
issue for us to wrestle with, as to how do we avoid the dots painting us into corners that we’re 
not even painting? 
One final note. I would like to add additional support for the point that a number of 
people have made in a number of contexts for a preference that interest rates remain our primary 
tool in the implementation of policy except in extraordinary times. I believe it best that our 
balance sheet policy continue to operate in the background, with a fairly high hurdle existing for 
its use as an active policy instrument. Our communication challenges and managing of market 
expectations is complicated enough without the market having to form views on our mix of the 
two tools. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B. In particular, I 
support the removal from the statement of language about further gradual increases in the federal 
funds rate. I think that that’s a good move. I’ve been arguing for some time that I think we can 
afford to be patient. We’re essentially at neutral. There appears to still be slack in the labor 
market. Inflation is well under control—no need to tap the brakes on the economy. 
One observation I have is that you’re moving to twice as many press conferences, which, 
unfortunately, means you’re going to get twice as much advice from us [laughter] on how you 
should communicate in press conferences. So apologies from me for piling on. 
I think today’s move is the right move, but I think it’s going to be viewed as a substantial 
dovish shift relative to December, certainly, but even relative to expectations coming into this 
meeting. And I think that lends itself to three potential misinterpretations, some of which others 
have articulated. One is that we’re responding to political pressure. I think that’s the easiest one 
January 29–30, 2019
198 of 255
 
 
 
 
to push back on. The second is that we’re reacting to the stock market, which I don’t think we 
want to get in the habit of signaling about. And then the third is that this is a dovish move—
maybe we see something on the horizon that we’re really scared about, and we want to take out 
insurance ahead of that. For me—and I said this yesterday—I think there’s a very positive 
message that we can articulate about the supply side of the economy and inflation being in 
check. So I would just humbly suggest focusing on the positive. I think it’s the best inoculation 
against these different misinterpretations. 
Finally, let me just add to my “spirit brother,” Governor Quarles, and President Bullard. 
I think the dot plot is long past its prime, and it’s doing more harm than good at this point. And I 
don’t think we should be afraid of people saying—they’re going to squeal that we’re being un-
transparent. They’re going to squeal when the dots are wrong. They’re going to squeal more 
when the dots are wrong than about our doing away with dots that are not helping us, so I think 
this is something we should take on and reassess how useful it is. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. While the hard data continue to reassure us that the 
economy is at our goals, I worry that the protracted shutdown may have brought us closer to a 
tipping point in sentiment, and the accumulation of many separate downside risks may erode 
consumer and business confidence and thereby feed into economic activity. Related to that, I’m 
concerned that a variety of indicators of recession probabilities have moved up. 
In light of that, prudent risk management implies we should wait for reassurance that an 
erosion in sentiment, following this accumulation of downside risk, doesn’t derail the 
considerable progress we’ve made. Moreover, we have the benefit of being able to watch and 
wait as the risks of an overheated economy have fallen. 
January 29–30, 2019
199 of 255
 
 
 
 
For these reasons, I fully support the removal of forward guidance. And I support 
pausing while we monitor evolving risks to the outlook. It indicates that we’re mindful of the 
recent financial turbulence and ongoing heightened-risk environment and of the possible adverse 
consequences of that environment for output and employment. At the same time, it doesn’t 
preclude a return to a funds rate path along the lines of the December SEP later in the year if the 
economy were to evolve along the lines that were anticipated earlier. 
I agree, however, with Governor Quarles on the caution that he raised that we seem to be 
being patient “in light of global economic and financial developments.” Like him, I think I 
would have preferred to have taken that same language “as we monitor” global economic and 
financial developments, which is how we’ve done it traditionally. But I’m comfortable with the 
language we have. I think it would have been, perhaps, an approach less subject to 
misinterpretation. 
Together, I think the changes in forward guidance and balance sheet communications are 
significant. It would be prudent to see what effects those changes have and how the outlook 
evolves. Of course, if the model-based recession probabilities were to mount further or if 
weakness began to be evident in hard data, such as claims and payrolls, we should be prepared to 
take out some insurance by acting preemptively. For today, watchful waiting in the context of 
prudent risk management is appropriate. So far, the available hard data, including the upside 
surprise in today’s ADP payrolls print, are providing no indication the economy is downshifting 
faster than the softer-but-still-above-trend pace anticipated in the SEP. 
With regard to the points that have been raised in this discussion, I had the same question 
as Presidents Mester, Evans, George, Barkin, and Bostic—I think I have the full list—as to how 
today’s language will evolve in the future. Instead of alt-A and alt-B—which ask the question 
January 29–30, 2019
200 of 255
 
 
 
 
“How would you frame it differently today?”—I think I would find it more useful, as we make 
language changes, to see how that language might evolve in future scenarios, whether they be 
stronger or weaker than we currently anticipate. 
Also, like Presidents Rosengren and Evans—or at least like President Rosengren—I think 
it would be very valuable to increase the frequency of the SEP to correspond to the increased 
frequency of press conferences. I think this will actually solve the problem Governor Quarles 
raised by helping provide a higher-frequency sense of how that median outlook is evolving to 
take into account higher-frequency developments. It seems particularly valuable at turning 
points. I know my own SEP today would show substantial change relative to December. And 
like President Evans, I think it is a very valuable mechanism, certainly for holding each of us 
accountable and keeping us internally consistent or honest, as these forecasts will be part of the 
record. I also do think it’s a very valuable communications mechanism. I think market 
participants know how to interpret it now. 
Finally, with regard to the balance sheet, I support very much the proposed changes to the 
normalization principles, including the two-step approach of talking about the framework today 
and talking about a stopping point for balance sheet runoff at a future meeting, potentially in 
March. As we move to announcing that decision, however, I do think communications are going 
to be exceptionally important. We need to be crystal clear that the goal of announcing a stopping 
point is to provide greater clarity and certainty about our plans, and that this does not in any way 
represent a change in our monetary policy approach through more active use of the balance 
sheet. So I support alternative B. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
January 29–30, 2019
201 of 255
 
 
 
 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B 
with the “solid” amendment to the first sentence. 
Since our December meeting, our attempt to slow-walk the move away from forward 
guidance to a more purely data-dependent approach has been overtaken by events. As I 
mentioned yesterday, concerns about global economic and financial developments that we 
highlighted in our policy statement in December have been borne out. So I am going to react, a 
little bit, to Governor Quarles and others. 
The analysis that I talked about from the New York Fed staff, that used various models, 
the analysis that I think Steve showed from the 2016 episode, and the analysis from the Board 
staff, show that the big delta in the economic forecast is the change in financial conditions. Sure, 
the slowdown in global growth does have an effect, in terms of our view of U.S. economic 
growth. But at least in the analysis I’ve seen—and I’ve looked at a lot of different models—the 
big “delta” here is that financial conditions have tightened since September. The spreads have 
widened, the stock market is down, and I think that not including that as one of the factors that 
has shifted our view of where the economy is going, would be misleading. 
I also like the parallel structure between our December statement, where we said we’re 
monitoring global economic and financial developments. That was something clearly on our 
radar. We’ve now seen those show that they’ve persisted in many ways, and that’s affected our 
thinking about the outlook. 
I do understand the desire to always tie things to our economic outlook and our dual 
objective. I do think the set-up of paragraph 2 does emphasize our dual-mandate objectives. It 
emphasizes our basically positive view of the outlook but highlights, I think, the key factors that 
are giving us the ability, as President Kashkari highlighted—and I completely agree with this—
January 29–30, 2019
202 of 255
 
 
 
 
this fact that inflation is low, and the fact that we’re in this situation, gives us room to hold off in 
raising interest rates at this time. In addition, as so eloquently put by President Evans, 
inflationary pressures are simply AWOL. [Laughter.] 
I do see three possible scenarios for 2019, and I’m sure that we can get together—
President Harker and I and anyone else—and have a great debate about Knightian versus 
Bayesian uncertainty. We’ve had those many times in the past at this table. Some of the non-
economists have not enjoyed it as much as we have [laughter], but we’d be happy to do that 
again. But I do see three possible scenarios for growth for this year. The first is the economy 
being kind of a replay of 2018—growth well above potential, the labor market strengthening, and 
inflation moving, perhaps persistently, well above our target. Now, this is a very positive 
scenario, and that would call for a modest policy tightening later this year. 
The second scenario is growth close to potential, with inflation running near our target. 
In this scenario, which is my modal forecast today, the current range for the policy rate would 
continue to be appropriate. 
Now, the third scenario, which I think President Evans and others have mentioned, is that 
we have reached, or are soon reaching, a turning point, followed by a significant deterioration in 
the outlook for growth and inflation. In that scenario, we need to adjust the stance of monetary 
policy as needed, depending on the nature and timing of the adverse developments that we’re 
facing. 
At this time, it’s unclear which scenario will ultimately play out. Geopolitical 
uncertainty may recede, data may confirm the strong momentum in the U.S. economy, and, 
indeed, we may find ourselves in scenario number 1. But there is a significant probability of the 
other two scenarios occurring, and this assessment overturns any conviction that we are highly 
January 29–30, 2019
203 of 255
 
 
 
 
likely to be continuing on an upward trajectory for the funds rate this year. And I think the 
policy statement captures that shift. 
We are indeed, as many have said, in a wait-and-see mode for now. I think the language 
in alternative B appropriately emphasizes not only that our baseline outlook is positive, but also, 
importantly, that we’re in a data-dependent and flexible approach to policy . 
I agree—and Governor Brainard listed them all in the list that she made, including 
herself—about the need to think ahead to where we go after “patient.” I think that’s something 
that we do need to be thinking through. I think this has a little bit of a shelf life, but not a lot. So 
I agree with thinking about what “good” looks like as we go forward. 
Okay. Back in the day, when I sat next to President Evans, our job was to keep ourselves 
calm and reasonable and not jump out of our seats when we hear something that we disagree 
with. But these two colleagues of mine are not doing that, so I will just very briefly opine. I 
strongly, strongly support continuing the SEP the way it’s done now. I strongly support the dot 
plot. Maybe we can improve it. Maybe there are ways that we can highlight the uncertainties in 
things or the ambiguity in that. I know this is not a debate for today, but I personally never felt 
having my hands tied by what I said in the past in terms of the dots. [Laughter] I do think we’ve 
just proven again, as a group, that we can change our minds in response to changing information. 
We did it in 2016, which the Chairman highlighted in his press conference after the previous 
meeting. And I think that the dot plot represents a view of participants in the Committee. I think 
it’s a positive thing that we can change our mind, and change our perspective, as the data change. 
And, again, I don’t think it does tie our hands in any way. I think we’ve shown, even in the past 
month or so, the ability to not only change our minds as the situation changes, but also convey 
that in communications so that we’re not surprising markets. Anyway, I know that’s not the 
January 29–30, 2019
204 of 255
 
 
 
 
topic of discussion today, but I wanted just to express that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support 
alternative B. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you. We had a two-hander by President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Just one suggestion for consideration, I think, for the Committee. It’s 
actually an idea that President Bullard brought up a while ago: Keep the dot plot, but instead of 
doing it as an annual, do it at 4 quarters, 8 quarters, and 12 quarters ahead. That would avoid 
boxing us in in terms of a particular year, because that’s the problem—we’re doing it by calendar 
year instead of by 4 quarters, 8 quarters, and 12 quarters. So that would get us out of that 
problem but would retain some of the benefits. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. All right. Thank you. That’s a great idea. I think this is 
something that can be considered at the subcommittee. 
So, regarding thestatement language, there were a couple of suggestions. I sense no 
bandwagon jumping on them, so I think we’re just voting on the basic alternative B statement 
language. And I’ll ask Jim to clarify what we’ll vote on and then to read the roll. 
MR. CLOUSE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The vote will be on the monetary policy 
statement as it appears on page 4 of Thomas’s briefing materials, with the amendment that the 
end of the first sentence will say “economic activity has been rising at a solid rate.” And the vote 
will also encompass the directive to the Desk as it appears in the implementation note on pages 6 
and 7 of Thomas’s briefing materials. 
Chairman Powell Yes 
Vice Chairman Williams Yes 
Governor Bowman Yes 
Governor Brainard Yes 
President Bullard Yes 
Governor Clarida Yes 
President Evans Yes 
President George Yes 
January 29–30, 2019
205 of 255
 
 
 
 
Governor Quarles Yes 
President Rosengren Yes 
 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thanks. Now we have two sets of related matters under the 
Board’s jurisdiction: corresponding interest rates on reserves and discount rates. May I have a 
motion from a Board member to take the proposed action with respect to the interest rates on 
reserves as set forth in the first paragraph on the last page of Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. Now may I have a motion 
from a Board member to take the proposed actions with respect to the primary credit rate and the 
rates for secondary and seasonal credit as set forth in the second paragraph on the last page of 
Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Without objection. Now, before we confirm the date of our 
next meeting, I’d like to turn the floor over to Governor Clarida, who has a few comments on the 
status of the process we’ve begun to gather input from the public on the Committee’s strategic 
framework for monetary policy. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be brief. As part of our 2019 framework 
review, we plan to devote several FOMC meetings in the second half of 2019 to discuss and 
assess ways in which we might refine our strategy and communication and update our toolkit to 
best equip us to reach our dual-mandate objectives. To that end, I’ve asked Thomas Laubach to 
January 29–30, 2019
206 of 255
 
 
 
 
reach out to your research directors to begin to organize and coordinate the staff work that will 
provide the background for our FOMC meetings on these topics. This is a process that we have 
used in the past, and your research directors will be hearing from Thomas soon. Thank you. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thank you, Governor Clarida. Our final agenda item is to 
confirm that our next meeting will be Tuesday and Wednesday, March 19 and 20, 2019. That 
concludes this meeting. Thanks, everyone. And a buffet—I’ll call it brunch—is now available 
in the anteroom. Thanks very much. 
END OF MEETING 
January 29–30, 2019
207 of 255

===== FOMC MEETING 2019-03-20 =====

Meeti
ng of the Federal Open Market Committee on 
March 19–20, 2019 
A
 joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board of Governors was held in 
the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on 
Tuesday, March 19, 2019, at 10:00 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, March 20, 2019, at 
9:00 a.m. 
PR
ESENT: 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
James Bullard 
Richard H. Clarida 
Charles L. Evans 
Esther L. George 
Randal K. Quarles 
Eric Rosengren 
P
atrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Michael Strine, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
T
homas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, and Mary C. Daly, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively 
Jam
es A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Michael Held, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
Thomas Laubach, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
T
homas A. Connors, Rochelle M. Edge, Eric M. Engen, Christopher J. Waller, William 
Wascher, and Beth Anne Wilson, Associate Economists 
S
imon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account 
L
orie K. Logan, Deputy Manager, System Open Market Account 
A
nn E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 

Mat
thew J. Eichner,1 Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board of Governors; Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
Board of Governors; Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors 
 
Daniel M. Covitz, Deputy Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; 
Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of Governors; 
Trevor A. Reeve, Deputy Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Antulio N. Bomfim, Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Brian M. Doyle, Wendy E. Dunn, Joseph W. Gruber, Ellen E. Meade, and John M. Roberts, 
Special Advisers to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Shaghil Ahmed, Senior Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors; Joshua Gallin and David E. Lebow, Senior Associate Directors, Division of 
Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Edward Nelson, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Jeremy 
B. Rudd, Senior Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Marnie Gillis DeBoer
1 and David López-Salido, Associate Directors, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Jeffrey D. Walker,
1 Deputy Associate Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and 
Payment Systems, Board of Governors 
 
Andrew Figura, Assistant Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; 
Laura Lipscomb,
1 Zeynep Senyuz,1 and Rebecca Zarutskie, Assistant Directors, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Michele Cavallo,1 Section Chief, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Penelope A. Beattie,2 Assistant to the Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
 
Mark A. Carlson, Senior Economic Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
1 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. 
2 Attended Tuesday’s session only. 

D
avid H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Martin Bodenstein, Marcel A. Priebsch, and Bernd Schlusche,1 Principal Economists, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Mary-Frances Styczynski,
1 Lead Financial Institution and Policy Analyst, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Achilles Sangster II, Information Management Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
of Governors 
 
Gregory L. Stefani, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
 
David Altig, Kartik B. Athreya, Michael Dotsey, Glenn D. Rudebusch, Ellis W. Tallman, and 
Joseph S. Tracy, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Richmond, 
Philadelphia, San Francisco, Cleveland, and Dallas, respectively 
 
Antoine Martin,
1 Julie Ann Remache,1 and Mark L.J. Wright, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, New York, and Minneapolis, respectively 
 
Roc Armenter,
1 Kathryn B. Chen,1 Hesna Genay, Jonathan P. McCarthy, and Patricia Zobel,1 
Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, New York, Chicago, New York, and 
New York, respectively 
 
Samuel Schulhofer-Wohl, Senior Economist and Research Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago 
 
Daniel Cooper, Senior Economist and Policy Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
 
Ellen Correia Golay,
1 Markets Officer, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
 
A. Lee Smith, Senior Economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 

T
ranscript of the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting on 
March 19–20, 2019 
 
March 19 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. This meeting, as usual, will be a joint 
meeting of the FOMC and the Board. I need a motion from a Board member to close the 
meeting. 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. 
As you know, we’ve got a full agenda for this meeting. So we’re starting early, in order 
to ensure that we have ample time for a full discussion on each of the topics on the agenda. 
Before we start, I’d like to welcome Stacey Tevlin to the table in her new capacity as 
director of Research and Statistics. We’re delighted to have you here, Stacey, and we promise 
not to hold the projected weak first quarter against you. [Laughter] Please join me in welcoming 
Stacey. [Applause] 
I’d also like to take a moment to recognize Tom Connors. As many of you know, Tom 
has announced that, after only 41 years here at the Board, he’ll be retiring, and this will be his 
132nd and last FOMC meeting. Tom began his career at the Board in 1977 as an economist. He 
focused on developing countries and substantially augmented his experience while seconded at 
the USED’s office at the IMF from 1982 to 1983. He would go on to become chief of the 
Emerging Markets Economies Section and has been a deputy director of the International 
Finance Division since 2008. 
In his time at the Board, Tom has been a key part of the Federal Reserve’s responses to 
international economic crises in Latin America, Asia, and elsewhere. He has also played a 
critical role in the management and culture of the International Finance Division as well as in 

p
roviding support to Board members at international meetings all over the world. His vast 
experience in economics, knowledge of Fed history, and spontaneous dry wit have made him 
both an ideal traveling companion and a highly effective ambassador of the Fed at innumerable 
international gatherings. We’re grateful for all of Tom’s contributions and wish him the best in 
his well-deserved retirement. Tom. [Applause] 
With that, let’s turn to our first agenda item, the update to the Balance Sheet 
Normalization Principles and Plans. Before we begin that discussion, I just wanted to note that 
there has been quite a bit of attention lately on the possibility that the FOMC might soon choose 
to implement some form of repo facility. The ideas that have been floated are very interesting, 
and, of course, we’ve had some previous staff work and discussion on the subject. But there are 
many important and complicated issues associated with a facility like this. I’ve asked the staff to 
do some more work on this topic so that we can have a full discussion of this issue at an 
upcoming meeting or two. 
My sense is that some of the press reports on the topic have gotten more than a little bit 
ahead of themselves at this point. So, for now, I suggest that, in our public statements, it might 
be appropriate to be fairly noncommittal. And just note that this is a very interesting subject that 
we will be discussing, along with many other issues associated with the long-run operating 
framework. With that, let me turn the floor over to Zeynep to provide a review of the options for 
completing the normalization of the size of the balance sheet. Zeynep. 
MS. SENYUZ.
1 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
I will refer to your first exhibit, which draws on the memo titled “Options for 
Ending Balance Sheet Runoff.” This memo describes two options for stopping 
balance sheet runoff at the end of September 2019 and a proposed reinvestment 
strategy for principal payments received from securities holdings. Lorie will cover in 
her briefing the second memo you received, which discussed details of the 
1 The materials used by Ms. Senyuz are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). 

o
perational plan to transition to an ample reserves regime. My briefing will focus on 
the materials directly related to the communications proposal in front of you. 
In the January FOMC meeting, you discussed options to end balance sheet runoff 
later this year in order to provide the public with greater clarity about the evolution of 
the SOMA portfolio. The memo that you received provides two possibilities for 
doing so. Under the “no taper” option, Treasury security redemptions would 
continue, subject to the current $30 billion per month cap until September and then 
end. Under the “taper” option, the Treasury cap would be reduced to $20 billion in 
April and then to $10 billion in July before Treasury security redemptions end 
entirely at the end of September. 
Under the no-taper plan, by the time balance sheet runoff stops at the end of 
September, reserve balances are projected to reach $1.2 trillion, with a SOMA size of 
about $3.5 trillion. According to our standard models, there is essentially no 
economic difference between the no-taper and taper options. Tapering redemptions 
would leave the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet a little larger for a while. But this 
would have a negligible effect on the term premium and the macroeconomy. 
Moreover, in the long run, these two options have no implications for the level of 
reserve balances or the size of the portfolio—which are ultimately determined by 
demand for Federal Reserve liabilities. 
The decision between the no-taper and taper options would thus depend on other 
criteria. A plan to taper the Treasury cap before ending Treasury redemptions 
altogether would be consistent with most of the previous changes in balance sheet 
policy. Such a plan could be communicated as further supporting a smooth approach 
to transitioning to the ample-reserves regime and might provide reassurance to market 
participants that balance sheet normalization will not put at risk the attainment of the 
macroeconomic objectives of monetary policy. On the other hand, the no-taper plan 
could be viewed as a simple strategy that would allow a slightly faster transition to 
the desired long-run level of reserves. 
The most recent survey of primary dealers and market participants provided some 
information on market views regarding the timing of the end of the balance sheet 
runoff. In a new question, respondents were asked about their expected timing of an 
announcement to stop reducing the Federal Reserve’s asset holdings. Most 
respondents expected an announcement at the conclusion of this FOMC meeting. 
However, responses were more dispersed in terms of the timing of the initial 
implementation of such a plan. Most respondents expected the implementation to 
start during the third quarter of this year. But expectations of the remaining 
respondents were roughly evenly divided between the second and fourth quarters of 
this year. 
Once balance sheet runoff comes to an end, the Committee will need a plan for 
reinvesting MBS principal payments, at least in the interim, until decisions are 
reached on the longer-run composition of the SOMA portfolio. Consistent with your 
previously announced plan to hold “primarily Treasury securities” in the longer run, 

you m
ay wish to reinvest MBS principal paydowns below the monthly $20 billion 
cap in Treasury securities. These purchases would take place in the secondary 
market. Allocating these purchases across different Treasury security types and 
maturity ranges in proportion to the outstanding Treasury “universe” would avoid 
having them concentrated in any one sector. Under this plan, the Federal Reserve 
would begin to build some holdings of relatively short-term Treasury securities, 
though at a relatively slow pace. 
The approach of allocating Treasury purchases across the maturity spectrum may 
be perceived as neutral and not as sending a signal about the long-run portfolio 
design. As noted in the revised statement of Balance Sheet Normalization Principles 
and Plans, you could indicate that this initial reinvestment decision is temporary and 
that the subject of reinvestment policy would be revisited in connection with the 
Committee’s deliberations on the long-run asset composition. 
Market views about the likely choices of reinvestment plans at this stage appear to 
be fairly dispersed. Some market participants have noted that they expect purchases 
to be concentrated in bills, reflecting the fact that the SOMA portfolio’s weighted-
average maturity exceeds that of the outstanding stock of Treasury securities. Others 
have suggested that the Committee would spread reinvestments across a range of 
maturities. On balance, our sense is that market reaction to the proposed interim 
reinvestment strategy on MBS principal payments will likely be muted. 
The draft Balance Sheet Normalization Principles and Plans proposes to leave the 
$20 billion monthly cap on MBS redemptions in place. In the unlikely event that 
principal payments on agency securities exceed the cap, the amount above the cap 
would be reinvested in agency MBS. Although MBS paydowns are unlikely to 
exceed this cap after this year, retaining the cap may continue to support the smooth 
functioning of the MBS market by limiting the pace at which the MBS holdings could 
decline if prepayments accelerated in response to a sizable drop in long-term rates. 
The FOMC’s plan for ending balance sheet runoff and reinvesting MBS principal 
payments can be communicated through the Balance Sheet Normalization Principles 
and Plans as indicated in the draft attached to your exhibit. As the Committee has 
previously discussed, the level of reserve balances at the conclusion of balance sheet 
runoff will likely be somewhat above the level consistent with the efficient and 
effective implementation of monetary policy. The document suggests that the 
Committee would maintain the size of the balance sheet “roughly constant” for a 
time, in order to allow a very gradual continued decline in the average level of 
reserves. This very gradual decline would help to minimize any risks of a significant 
pickup in interest rate volatility as reserves move to lower levels after September. 
Once the Committee judges that it has reached the appropriate level of reserves, the 
Desk would conduct periodic open market operations necessary to accommodate the 
trend growth of nonreserve liabilities and maintain an appropriate level of reserves in 
the system. 

T
hank you. This concludes my prepared remarks. I would be happy to take any 
questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks, Zeynep. Questions for Zeynep? President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you. Last time, when we were talking about December versus 
September, we decided December was dicey just because of the volatility. 
MS. SENYUZ. Right. 
MS. MESTER. Now, the debt ceiling is going to come into effect in the fall. In your 
memo, it’s reported that the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has it in September. Does that 
add any complication to thinking about September as the right time? 
MS. SENYUZ. According to some of the analysis we did, the debt limit will not cause 
any issues of concern. If the debt-limit issue is resolved earlier and the Treasury starts building 
up the Treasury General Account (TGA) relatively quickly, as it did in the previous episodes, 
that would increase TGA balances and would drain reserves. And we will see fluctuations in 
TGA balances in the coming months. Actually, reserves will reach new lows around May—they 
will come down to about $1.4 trillion, so I guess we will be able to analyze this period before we 
reach the end of the summer. But the TGA balances coming down would add to reserves. So, in 
that sense, it wouldn’t create any complications. 
One risk, in terms of implementation, would be increased TGA balances that would drain 
reserves. But even under that scenario, we expect that reserve balances will be close to our 
projected baseline path under the current estimates. Of course, if reserve demand appears to be 
stronger than expected, then we may see some pressures, ultimately, in the money markets. But 
we don’t expect this to be the case, on the basis of our simulations. 
CHAIR POWELL. President George. 

M
S. GEORGE. My question relates to reinvestment of the principal payments. Up until 
now, as reinvestments have taken place, we have not been explicit in the normalization principles 
about directing the Desk to reinvest. I take it that the nature of what we’re doing here makes you 
think that saying that explicitly, even on an interim basis, is an important signal now versus the 
Committee allowing the Desk to do that. And I’m curious what dynamics you anticipate. Is it 
because of the end that we need to put that in there? Because my concern is, as we get to the 
point of making a longer-run decision, we will now have made a “soft” commitment here about 
how that will look, but that may be overstating the case here. 
MS. SENYUZ. Right. And we are hoping that it will be clear from the Normalization 
Principles and Plans that we will retain the flexibility to change this plan, and this is just an 
interim plan that applies to the MBS reinvestments. And in the case of Treasury securities, we 
will continue to roll them over at auction. But— 
MS. GEORGE. And if we were silent on that in this document, I think the markets 
would react. 
MS. LOGAN. I think, President George, the question you may be asking is, if it’s 
important for the market to understand what the choice is. I’m interpreting your question to be, 
“Do we have a view about whether it should be in that document or in a Desk statement?” I 
think, from the market’s perspective, as long as it’s communicated, that’s the key issue. 
MR. POTTER. So it doesn’t matter in which one you say it. 
MS. LOGAN. No. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 

M
R. KAPLAN. Just to follow up on President George’s question: Assuming that in the 
not-too-distant future we decide to make an announcement that we’re going to shorten 
maturities, does being this explicit make it harder? That’s, I think, the question. 
MS. LOGAN. No, I don’t think so. I think the language that is being discussed provides 
the flexibility to make the longer-term decision. Regardless, you do need to communicate in 
some form, either through that document or through a Desk statement, to the market about how 
we’re going to do those reinvestments starting in October. I think that’s the key issue. I think 
the form of that communication is perhaps less— 
MR. KAPLAN. And the reason you don’t want to signal shorter now is you feel like 
that’s a debate we’re going to need to have, and that we’re not ready to make that judgment. 
CHAIR POWELL. Correct. But if there is any opportunity to do this, I will make sure to 
emphasize that this is not a settled question and that this is a resting place. I personally have 
sympathy for a shorter duration balance sheet. We just haven’t really had the deep discussion 
about that yet. 
MS. GEORGE. Yes, and the neutral part of this interim plan I’m agreeing with. It just 
struck me as a difference between giving the Desk instructions through a Desk statement, or the 
Desk expressing their intent, and us embodying it. It felt more like a policy statement of our 
own. So that was the question, really: How important is it that we make that statement in this 
plan versus leaving it there? But I’d prefer to have the folks that interact with the— 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I think the challenge here is that we are so far away from 
any neutral composition of our portfolio that it probably is actually helpful to say, “This is a 
policy decision. This is the step we’re taking,” thereby making it clear that we’re making that 
decision, as opposed to putting it behind the scenes. 

M
S. GEORGE. So I was just trying to not disturb what I think is understood today and 
not highlight it. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Yes. 
MS. BRAINARD. I think I would defer to Lorie on how market participants will 
perceive it. But my sense is that we do need to have a policy about this, and this is the first step 
on having that. So for us to suggest that it’s simply a technical issue that the Desk would deal 
with is, I think, not an appropriate way to handle it. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions or comments? [No response] Okay. Thank you. 
Seeing none, let me start off with some comments myself. First, thanks to the staff for another 
helpful round of memos and presentations. This will be the fourth consecutive meeting at which 
the Committee has made progress on our balance sheet normalization plans. In January, we 
formalized our choice of a long-run operating framework. Today we’re in a position to make a 
few additional decisions relating to the final stages of normalizing asset holdings and reserves. 
We will tackle remaining longer-run questions in upcoming meetings. With that in mind, I’ll 
touch on a couple of issues regarding the normalization plan that’s up for consideration. 
The proposed plan reflects key aspects of the so-called Harker plan, although known by 
Pat as the Armenter plan. It calls for asset runoff to end on September 30. After that date, if we 
deem it appropriate, we may hold the size of the balance sheet constant for a while. If we do 
that, reserves would decline very gradually, reflecting the normal increase in other liabilities, 
especially currency. Once we determine that reserves have reached a minimum level consistent 
with our chosen implementation framework, the balance sheet would again be allowed to grow, 
reflecting the growth in our reserve and nonreserve liabilities. 

N
ow, I do support the proposed taper option, which would taper roll-off in April before 
stopping entirely at the end of September. This taper would be in line with our standard practice 
of moving gradually and predictably as reflected in the 2014 QE3 taper as well as the very 
gradual taper of the caps at the outset of the balance sheet normalization in 2017. 
As with the 2017 taper, there is no deep or strong reason to do this taper. This taper 
would not materially affect, as Zeynep indicated, where we end up. I think, however, the 
tapering provides a little bit of cheap insurance against unforeseen turbulence that could 
accompany a more abrupt plan. I see this taper as adding a dose of caution, minimizing risks to 
our dual-mandate goals. 
The taper might, I suppose, be seen as the Committee validating concerns over 
quantitative tightening, or QT. And, like most of you—I suspect perhaps all of you—I don’t 
subscribe to the QT theory that our normalization plan should have played a major role in a 
selloff late last year. And I have said that publicly on a couple of occasions. I thought our 
discussion at the previous meeting covered this issue pretty well, as reported in the minutes. And 
I hesitate to bring reason to bear on a theory that I find pretty implausible, but the modest total 
quantities involved in the taper would be trivial even from a QT perspective. So, if asked, I 
would explain that this taper is in line with our usual prudent approach of moving gradually and 
predictably and leave it at that. 
The plan before us today also calls for monthly MBS paydowns below $20 billion to be 
initially invested in Treasury securities across a range of maturities to roughly match the maturity 
composition of Treasury securities outstanding. The “initially” is meant to convey the message 
that today’s decision is an interim one that does not prejudge anything about our future debate 
regarding the ultimate maturity composition of the balance sheet. 

A
s I mentioned a moment ago and as I mentioned at a previous meeting, I am attracted to 
the idea of getting to a shorter maturity balance sheet over time, and I look forward to spirited 
discussions of this and other longer-term topics in upcoming FOMC meetings. Thank you. 
That’s what I have, and we’ll go now to President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have comments also on the second memo, and 
I think some others do as well. Do you want to hold those off, or do you want to do the second 
memo first? 
CHAIR POWELL. Well, I think we’re going to hear a presentation on the second memo 
as part of the Desk briefing. I, too, have comments on that memo, which I held off giving. So I 
would suggest that we do it that way, if that is all right. 
MR. HARKER. Okay. Then that’s what we’ll do. Once again, I also want to add my 
thanks to everyone who has worked on the memo and this work. It is a great analysis, and I 
really appreciate it. 
Before moving on to specifics, I want to emphasize that our communications have striven 
to make clear that the normalization process is not related to the stance of monetary policy. It is 
now simply balance sheet management rather than balance sheet policy, concerning primarily 
how the Desk will operate in order to maintain an ample supply of reserves and effective interest 
rate control—emphasizing interest rate control. 
It should not be much of a surprise that I support the plan to end the balance sheet runoff 
in September. We will remove most of the uncertainty left in the public mind regarding asset 
redemptions, so it’s hoped that the balance sheet gets a little bit less attention from now on—and 
we hope a lot less attention from now on. 

T
he gradual reduction of reserve balances due to currency growth will allow the 
Committee to probe a bit further the limits of the ample-reserves regime, and the knowledge 
obtained should help in refining the Desk estimates of the demand for reserves. 
Regarding the “taper or no taper” decision, I generally favor not tapering and keeping 
things as simple as possible, although I do understand the reasons given by the Chair and others 
and some of our past history with respect to tapers. To me, tapering does add an additional small 
element of complexity and will likely bring unnecessary attention to the normalization process. 
Because the stopping date has been conservatively chosen and will be communicated well ahead 
of time, there does not appear to be any corresponding additional benefit of tapering beyond the 
possible need to avoid a potential tantrum, a possibility that I believe is low-probability, but 
nonzero. So, again, I don’t have strong feelings on this, but I generally lean toward “simple.” 
With respect to the reinvestment of MBS redemptions, I would prefer to direct the 
proceeds to Treasury bills. While we have yet to decide on our longer-run plans for the 
composition of the SOMA portfolio, it is clear that we need to shorten the maturity structure and 
rebuild our holding of Treasury bills. 
As with the supply of reserves, while we were uncertain of the eventual level, we were 
confident that the direction was down. Analogously, while no final decision on SOMA 
composition has been made, we know that the eventual portfolio will have a shorter maturity 
structure than the current one. Generally, I would just reinvest in bills. 
But, overall, I support the statement. And I will have more comments on the second 
memo later. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 

CHAI
R POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Following the decision at the January meeting 
to continue with an ample reserves framework, I support a decision today to adopt the balance 
sheet normalization principles and plans as drafted, including the bracketed language on the 
proposed taper option. 
A decision to conclude the reduction in the security holdings of the SOMA account by 
September 30 of this year will likely result in reserve balances that remain somewhat above the 
level consistent with a prudent buffer on top of the underlying demand for reserves in a post-
crisis high quality liquid asset (HQLA) world. If so, as the statement indicates, there would, 
under this plan, be a period of time after September 2019 in which the balance sheet size would 
remain unchanged, but reserve balances would continue to shrink amid trend growth in currency 
and in other nonreserve liabilities. 
I think it is important for us to communicate that this is a plan, but that, if we decide in 
September that reserves are at that time at the level necessary to implement monetary policy, we 
are prepared, as the statement now clearly indicates, to begin in October to increase our holdings 
to keep pace with growth of our liabilities. 
In recognizing this possibility, it will be incumbent on us that we soon begin to be briefed 
on it and to then reach a decision on our reinvestment strategy once the balance sheet begins to 
expand again. As I see it, there are three possible choices: go short, go market, or go long 
duration. There are pluses and minuses associated with each, and the decision that we reach will 
be consequential for market term premiums today, as well as the amount of policy space we have 
in the future. 

A
t some point in the next year or so under this plan, the balance sheet will begin again to 
expand, and there has already been commentary in the financial media that this will constitute 
QE4. Of course, we know this is not the case, as it is the norm for central bank balance sheets to 
grow in tandem with nominal income and with money demand. But how we communicate this 
will depend on the ultimate decision we make about reinvestment. 
As I indicated in January, I believe that, by eliminating the remaining uncertainty about 
the destination and pace for balance sheet normalization, we do address one concern with the 
watching-paint-dry approach, which is that, until today, we have never indicated when the paint 
would stop drying. Our models tell us that the “dry paint date” should not matter, but I have 
come to accept that uncertainty about our plans can contribute to a tightening of financial 
conditions. And if we can resolve this uncertainty in a way that is consistent with our goals, then 
we should do so. This decision today does that—and now frees us to make the important 
decisions on reinvestment in coming meetings. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. My thinking on balance sheet normalization has been 
governed by a few general principles. First, our primary goal should be to maintain good control 
of the policy rate and effective transmission of it to other money market rates. A second goal 
should be a parsimonious operating framework that accommodates swings in Federal Reserve 
liabilities without necessitating frequent large open market operations or risking spikes in the 
funds rate. And, third, we should aim for simplicity and clarity to the greatest extent possible to 
separate technical issues associated with balance sheet normalization from communications 
about the stance of monetary policy. 

T
hose principles lead me to favor announcing now our plans for ending the asset 
redemption process and declaring normalization complete. As I’ve said previously, I favor 
ending asset redemptions when reserves reach around $1.2 trillion. This corresponds well with 
what we have learned from our surveys regarding banks’ comfortable level of reserves and 
allows for a healthy cushion on top of that to avoid unnecessary volatility. 
In the spirit of simplicity and clarity, I would, on balance, favor ending redemptions in 
September, rather than tapering them. While I was a strong proponent of gradual, predictable 
increases in asset redemptions in 2017, I don’t see that logic as applicable today. Tapering was 
appropriate as we were withdrawing balance sheet accommodation in 2017 and slowing 
purchases in 2014 when these actions were seen as removing accommodation. 
Tomorrow, we will be announcing the early end of asset redemptions, the end of what 
some have termed “quantitative tightening,” which should be viewed as somewhat 
accommodative by market participants who had originally anticipated that process ending next 
year. Since that time, they have moved their estimates, and, most recently, a majority of market 
participants surveyed expect that end to come in the third or fourth quarters of this year. 
The second argument one might advance for a taper is an insurance policy against a 
deterioration in the economy. I would argue that, if the economy were to take a sharp turn for 
the worse in the period between our announcement in March and the scheduled end of 
redemptions in September, there would be a compelling case for us simply ending redemptions 
at the same time as we cut rates. And I would see that as the proper course of action. 
All of that said, I am very comfortable with tapering if that’s the preferred course of the 
Chair. I don’t see it as having a material effect on the economy or the stance of monetary policy, 
and I see it as implying only modest effects on the complexity of our communications. 

T
hat same inclination toward simplicity leads me to see little value in holding the balance 
sheet flat for an indefinite period in order to achieve a relatively modest marginal reduction in 
reserves. As the staff points out, it is likely that the period of probing would only last a few 
months, and the effect on the average level of reserves would only be about $50 billion. If 
instead we allow the flat balance sheet to run much beyond that, I would worry that it would 
reintroduce the complications and risks associated with a program of active probing for the 
minimum level of reserves before the kink in the demand curve that we are trying to avoid. 
To help guide public perceptions of when probing is likely to end, the staff has proposed 
publishing a new measure, which we are going to hear more about—the minimum operating 
level. As the staff explains, this measure is inherently uncertain and would need to be monitored 
carefully and periodically revised. I appreciate all of the work that has gone into that. 
I can’t help but wonder if this additional machinery would be somewhat less focal if the 
balance sheet were allowed to grow in line with average growth in the demand for Federal 
Reserve liabilities starting a couple months after normalization ends. For instance, the 
Committee could announce that regular balance sheet growth would commence in December, 
and, at that time, it would reflect staff estimates of the demand for various liabilities. And for 
reserves, about which very little is known, the growth rate could initially be set at some easily 
explained pace, such as nominal GDP. But I am very comfortable with the proposed approach if 
that is the preferred course. 
Perhaps the most critical issue, which requires careful consideration before too long, is to 
develop a plan for the desired composition of the balance sheet in the long run and what that 
implies for the maturities of our purchases once they resume. Like others, I favor moving 

e
ventually to a portfolio of Treasury securities only. That’s without any MBS holdings 
remaining. But it’s important to do so in a way that continues to avoid market disruptions. 
I favor the approach in the statement that would have us replace maturing MBS with 
Treasury securities across a range of maturities to roughly match the composition of Treasury 
securities outstanding. I think that approach can be easily executed and explained as neutral 
while leaving us important flexibility to make a future determination on the long-run 
composition with substantial analysis and deliberation. 
 In the portion of our portfolio in Treasury securities, we currently hold no Treasury 
bills, and our portfolio has a much longer weighted-average maturity than the current stock of 
Treasury securities outstanding in the market or than our pre-crisis portfolio. When we begin 
once again purchasing Treasury securities, we will need to decide what maturities to purchase. 
Given how far out of step we are from these common benchmarks, it makes sense to weight 
those purchases more heavily toward the short end. But we are going to have to recognize that 
this would require a very sizable shift, and it would likely need to take place over a very long 
time period in order to avoid market disruption. Any effort to shift toward shorter-duration 
securities will inevitably be interpreted as tightening in the shorter term, and we need to be 
extremely mindful of that. It will need to be carefully weighed and very carefully 
communicated. I would want to have substantial analysis in hand and substantial deliberation 
before deciding precisely how to move toward a shorter weighted-average maturity. 
Finally, with regard to the debt ceiling that I think President Mester raised earlier, it is 
worth noting that the endgame of our balance sheet normalization may coincide with the swings 
in reserves associated with the approach and hopeful resolution of the debt ceiling. Depending 
on how those negotiations develop and the Treasury’s strategy for managing its own balance 

sh
eet as well as exogenous factors associated with tax receipts: for instance, the level of reserves 
prevailing at the time we end our balance sheet drawdown could be very different from normal 
levels. 
The staff has looked at this very carefully, and they have concluded it should be 
manageable, as the runway for the use of extraordinary measures is typically one in which the 
Treasury’s account declines to a low ebb, and, therefore, reserves are elevated. Still, the level of 
reserves may well be distorted just at the time we’re transitioning, and we’re going to want to 
keep a very close watch on those developments. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the balance sheet plans, and I 
appreciate the changes made to this draft statement to make clear that our reinvestment plans 
could change at a later date. As I mentioned at the previous meeting, I think it is very important 
that we aim for a portfolio size and composition that allows us to use our balance sheet 
effectively to stimulate the economy, in view of the probability of hitting the effective lower 
bound in the future. 
We currently hold no Treasury bills. My preference would be to hold a significant share 
of our balance sheet in Treasury bills. This portfolio composition would give us the flexibility to 
offset adverse shocks in the future by replacing our holdings of Treasury bills with longer-term 
Treasuries, putting downward pressure on longer-term rates without altering the size of our 
balance sheet. In fact, I would be supportive of reinvesting the principal payments received from 
MBS holdings into Treasury bills now, rather than across all maturities. But we can certainly 
wait to have a fuller discussion of asset allocation at future meetings. 

I
n terms of the bracketed bullet, which would taper the cap on Treasury security 
redemptions on April 1, my mild preference would be to taper. It gives us more time to evaluate 
the appropriate size of reserve buffers during a calendar period when the Treasury’s balances 
with us and the public’s currency holdings may be volatile. 
The memos did a nice job of discussing the tradeoff between potential rate volatility and 
the benefits of lower reserve balances. My own view is that we should be more risk averse about 
potential rate volatility than in the memo. I would prefer that we begin growing our balance 
sheet commensurate with growth in nonreserve liabilities, thus maintaining a larger reserves 
buffer starting in September. 
Reducing the reserve buffer to minimal levels has no real economic benefit and a very 
modest window-dressing benefit at the risk of potential spikes in short-term interest rates. To 
me, it seems that the possible costs entailed in keeping a minimal reserve balance outweigh the 
modest benefits of keeping the buffer small. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let me also say a word of appreciation for the staff 
for their continued work on this issue. Given their analysis, I feel comfortable with a minimum 
level of reserves slightly above $1 trillion to ensure we operate on the flat portion of the demand 
curve. Although there is some uncertainty regarding how banks’ demand for reserves will 
evolve over time, this minimum operating level incorporates a sizable buffer to maintain 
monetary policy control. I’m also in favor of communicating this proposed level to market 
participants before Treasury security reinvestments end, in order to help ensure a smooth 
transition. Of course, after learning more over time, we may adapt the level of reserves to 
changing circumstances. 

No
w, regarding the revised normalization principles, while I am broadly supportive, I am 
uncomfortable with a few implementation and communication details. I am in favor of tapering 
our redemptions as we approach the upward slope in reserve demand. However, as I noted 
previously, communicating our balance sheet plan and rationale well in advance is essential, and 
in our previous meeting, in stopping Treasury security redemptions the September option was 
preferred in part, at least in my case, because June seemed too early from an effective 
communications standpoint. 
Proposing to taper even sooner—in April, which is less than two weeks away—was very 
surprising to me and maybe surprising to markets as well. On this point, I was also a little 
surprised that we didn’t get background memos that went through the cost and benefits and the 
tradeoffs of different tapering dates. I personally would have found those useful to the 
discussion of how to think through this. 
Now, though I understand that starting the taper immediately has potential benefits, it’s 
not without some risk. A hasty move, which it could be interpreted as a decision to end 
redemptions contrasts with our style, which the Chair has just mentioned is gradual and 
predictable or gradual and deliberate—a steady hand at the tiller of all of this. And we have not 
telegraphed an April start date for the taper through the minutes or speeches as would typically 
be the case. As a result, we risk surprising the markets and the public and being misinterpreted. 
This is particularly a worry of mine given the recent choppy data, because it could be viewed as 
a policy shift rather than just trying to keep things in the background. I think this would be 

i
ndicative of more concerns about the economy than I am actually hearing, although I am 
anxious to hear what people have to say on that front later. 
On the balance sheet, the level of reserves and reinvestment are all supposed to be 
operational background details—I think we lovingly call them “plumbing”—and should not send 
signals about the stance of monetary policy. That is the goal we’ve set out for ourselves. So if 
we do choose to go in April, I think it’s going to be very important to convey that we are not 
sending any such signal about the economy. It is just the matter of making it easier to transition. 
I will say that, for these reasons, I would prefer to go in June—to taper, but start in June and then 
cease redemptions in September. Otherwise, I would probably go for just ceasing redemptions in 
September. 
We could still do this if we started in June, we would just have to adjust the amount, but 
we could still end in September just as we had planned. And if we did that, we could, in my 
mind, avoid unnecessary confusion or the risk of speculation about worries or concerns we might 
have about the economy. 
Finally, like others, I feel concerned about the maturity of our portfolio. Currently, the 
weighted-average maturity of the SOMA Treasury securities portfolio is over 90 months, almost 
two years longer than that of the outstanding Treasury debt. So reinvesting the proceeds from 
agency securities in Treasury securities to roughly match the maturity composition of Treasury 
securities outstanding as proposed in the normalization statement, while neutral in one way, adds 
to the imbalance in another way. 
So I would prefer, much like President Rosengren suggested, switching to shorter-term 
maturities right away. If we do this—I know we haven’t decided on this, and I would like to see 

t
hat discussion go forward—it’s only going to change the stocks slightly, and it does start putting 
us back in a place where, when we do have the discussion, the transition won’t be as difficult. 
I’ll conclude by saying that these issues really are saying something about the stance of 
policy. They both say something currently, because we’ve gotten more duration than we might 
want, but it doesn’t allow us as much room either. So even if we make this choice today to do it 
as it’s suggested, I think pulling the discussion of the composition of our portfolio forward is a 
really helpful thing. I’d like to have a lot of deliberations, like many have said, and doing that 
earlier rather than later would be my preference. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I generally support the balance sheet 
normalization plan of stopping redemptions at the end of September, holding the asset size of the 
SOMA portfolio constant for a while, and then allowing reserves to gradually fall further as 
currency and other nonreserve liabilities rise. 
Now, whether or not to begin tapering redemptions in April before ending them in 
September was a close call for me. On the one hand, as the Chair said, tapering is somewhat 
akin to how we ended purchases and how we began normalizing by raising the redemption path. 
And it’s possible that tapering would buy some insurance against a strong adverse reaction in the 
markets that could result in some volatility, while it would not have a material effect on the 
actual implementation of the plan. On the other hand, tapering would come as a surprise to the 
markets, especially as it would begin so soon—next month. It might be viewed—I agree with 
President Daly—as a response to weak economic data. So it’s not clear to me at all that an 
announcement of tapering would actually damp volatility. It might increase it. 

Mo
reover, some market participants did start blaming the Federal Reserve’s so-called 
quantitative tightening for the volatility seen in December, and I think that the Chair and others 
did a very good job of explaining why we didn’t believe that to be the case. And then, as 
volatility abated, there has been less discussion of the Fed’s influence. If we now indicate a 
taper is needed, contrary to market expectations, I think it would bring this issue up again, and it 
might be viewed as a reversal and validation of the view that quantitative tightening was a factor 
in the earlier market volatility. 
In the end, balancing the pros and cons, I would prefer that we not taper and proceed as 
the market is expecting. Of course, this would not preclude us changing plans, if necessary, as 
we indicated in January’s announcement about the balance sheet. 
I support reinvesting principal payments received from agency debt and agency MBS 
below the $20 billion cap into Treasury securities, which is consistent with our transitioning the 
SOMA portfolio to holding primarily Treasury securities. I would have preferred that we also 
invest any redemptions of agency MBS above the cap into Treasury securities as well. But since 
the cap is unlikely to be binding, this is not a major issue. 
Now, after today’s announcement, the Committee will have two more implementation 
decisions to make. First, what should be the longer-run composition of the SOMA portfolio? 
We’re not deciding on this today, and I’m glad that this was clarified in the statement compared 
with the first draft. So I can support initially reinvesting the MBS redemptions into Treasury 
securities to match the maturity composition of Treasury securities outstanding, but I would like 
the Committee to have a fuller discussion of the tradeoffs between a balance sheet composition 
that matches the maturity structure versus one that skews toward shorter-term Treasuries. 
Skewing more toward Treasury bills in normal times would preserve our ability to lengthen the 

m
aturity structure as a way to add accommodation during more severe economic downturns, as 
President Rosengren pointed out. Estimates suggest that this tool did have at least a limited 
effect when we used it during the previous downturn. And given that our tools to add 
accommodation at the zero lower bound are already quite limited, we should think about the pros 
and cons of effectively taking this tool off the table by our choice of balance sheet composition. 
The second important decision we’ll face is when to allow the balance sheet to begin 
growing again, along with currency and other nonreserve liabilities. So this is a decision about 
the level of reserves consistent with the minimum level needed for efficient and effective policy 
implementation within the abundant-reserves framework. The Desk’s current plan is to begin 
growing the balance sheet either later this year or early next year when reserves have fallen to 
$1.2 trillion and to announce this level in advance. 
Now, at our previous meeting, the minimum operating level we discussed was $1 trillion. 
The fact that the minimum is now increased with an additional buffer is a good illustration of the 
tension between the desire to hold no more securities than necessary for efficient and effective 
policy implementation and a desire to limit volatility in short-term Treasury rates. An abundance 
of caution suggests that the latter consideration will likely dominate—which means our estimates 
of the minimum will be revised up. But we’re telling the public that we intend to hold the 
smallest balance sheet possible, consistent with efficient and effective policy implementation. 
So we need to continue to explore what that level is. I’d like to see further analysis and 
discussion before agreeing to and announcing $1.2 trillion as the initial minimum. In particular, 
I’d like us to explore ways to limit volatility and ensure interest rate control other than holding a 
higher minimum. 

So
 I agree with the Chair that it’s worth discussing a standing repo facility, as President 
Bullard and as the staff have discussed at previous meetings. In addition to helping put a ceiling 
on the federal funds rate, demand for these repos would give us a signal about whether reserve 
scarcity is building up in the market without having to endure interest rate spikes. 
It’s also worth exploring tiering the interest rate we pay on reserves to pay lower rates on 
higher reserve levels, which would give banks an incentive to better manage their demand for 
reserves. I believe that the initial minimum operating level of reserves we announce will set the 
bar and will be difficult to revise down even if we convey the message that we will regularly 
evaluate and potentially adjust this minimum. 
Again, before committing to $1.2 trillion as the initial minimum, I’d like to see some 
further analysis of these and perhaps other alternatives for maintaining interest rate control, and I 
support the Chair’s call for that discussion. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the balance sheet normalization 
principles and plans as proposed. I also support adding the bracketed language reducing the cap 
on monthly redemptions. 
I have just a few remarks. On state contingency, I see the Committee as making a 
decision today to end the balance sheet runoff according to the plan as outlined. This leaves 
relatively little to decide later this year and, therefore, makes the issue of state contingency moot. 
I think this statement reflects good decisionmaking practice on the part of the Committee: Go 
ahead and make the decision when the available evidence suggests going ahead. 

O
n tapering, I like it because this is the way the Committee has behaved at times in the 
past, so it is consistent in that sense, and also because it makes it clear that a process is being set 
in motion to stop runoff in September. The decision is being made today. 
On the size of the balance sheet, this is a commitment to a larger balance sheet than many 
had envisioned at earlier points in deliberations on this issue. I continue to think that this 
decision does carry some political risk, as IOER is paid to large banking institutions as well as to 
foreign banking institutions. I think that political risk potentially cuts across party lines. 
Arguments that the IOER received by banks passes through to consumers, however appealing 
theoretically, are likely to ring hollow in a political debate. Loss of the ability to pay IOER 
would be a serious matter as it would likely upset the operating framework for the Fed. 
Taking this into consideration and cognizant of the opening comments by Chair Powell 
and also the comments by President Mester, the Committee, over the medium term, may want to 
consider opening a repo facility to complement the RRP facility. This may reduce reliance on 
reserves, depending on the details of such a facility and how it would work. It would also move 
the Fed toward an international standard in central banking. Again, this is a medium-term issue, 
but I think an important one that should remain under active consideration. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. In previous discussions of this topic, I have 
expressed a preference for smaller reserve balances than envisioned in the current approach, 
primarily for reasons of “optics” and political risk. I have to say, however, that I’ve been struck, 
particularly in your recent hearings, by how little balance sheet size seems to matter these days. 
That’s good. 

A
nd I think to keep the balance sheet out of the conversation, we are best served by 
taking as simple, as speedy, and as a direct approach to ending the runoff as possible. 
Prolonging the process with multiple tapers makes this more complicated and longer lasting than 
it needs to be, and I think for little benefit. The faster we tie a bow around this, the better. 
Like many folks, I don’t think that tapering the end of redemptions is necessary. The 
difference in reserve balances in September between the taper and the no-taper options is small, 
and simply announcing that we will end redemptions in September at a level of reserves well 
above minimum should give markets plenty of comfort. But also, like others, I don’t feel 
strongly about this. 
Upon reflection, I also no longer believe we should invest much effort in probing how 
low we can take reserves after we end redemptions. Our expressed intent is to have a 
considerable buffer over our current estimate of minimum operating level of reserves, which 
itself has a buffer over estimated demand. Relative to these multiple buffers, the amount of 
additional reserves runoff seems trivial. It risks giving the impression that we are operating with 
more precision than we really are, and we may find volatility that we have said we don’t want. 
When we are ready to be more specific about the level of reserves around which we will 
operate, I would make it simple and avoid false precision, by rounding our minimum operating 
level of reserves to a trillion while trying to operate in the neighborhood of $1.2 trillion. Without 
tapering the redemption caps, we’ll be approximately there in September, and we’ll essentially 
be able to declare an end to normalization of the size of the balance sheet. That said, I am still 

ope
n to ideas, like those mentioned by President Mester, to reduce the balance sheet further. I 
just think we can do those in the background. 
With regard to balance sheet composition, my long-term preference is to reinvest in 
Treasuries only and to weight our purchases to the short end. This, of course, gives us greater 
policy space to extend maturity if needed at the lower bound. Given our overweight to the long 
end today, I see no reason not to start a rebalancing now. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the balance sheet plans and the 
statement. I am glad we’re making this decision at this meeting. I will just make three points. 
One, I would be open to a decision without the taper, but I can live and be supportive of 
the taper. The only comment that I would make, which has been reinforced by others here, is we 
just need to be able to explain to the market that the taper is not related to the stance of monetary 
policy. With that caveat, I can support the taper. 
Two, I do believe that, in the not-too-distant future, we should have the debate about the 
maturities of our holdings of Treasury securities. I would prefer, as others have said, to see the 
maturity of our Treasury security investments shortened because I think we will want to have the 
capacity to lengthen it in the event of a downturn. So I hope in our explanations we just 
emphasize that that decision is yet to come. 
And, three, as President Mester and Bullard referred, I would advocate the exploration of 
a repo facility, because I think it might be useful if we need to make adjustments in the future. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 

M
R. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the revised balance sheet 
normalization principles and plans. Since there is little economic difference between the 
tapering and no tapering options, I don’t have strong feelings about one over the other. It is 
certainly the case that the tapering offers a bit of insurance, and it should make the transition 
easier, so I’m fine with the tapering option. 
I agree with the plan on MBS holdings. I also support the revision to the statement that 
noted the MBS reinvestment plan would be revisited, along with our deliberations over the 
longer-run composition of the SOMA portfolio. Some financial market commentators have a 
tendency to leap to conclusions about our future actions from these interim reports, so it’s 
worthwhile reminding them that we have work to do on this issue, and we’re not locking into a 
particular choice now. We don’t want our interim actions to be misinterpreted and needlessly 
constrain our long-run plans. 
I also think we should soon put out similar interim plans for the minimum operating level 
of reserves. We will be briefed on the minimum operating level of reserves soon. My thinking 
is that perhaps in May we can give markets an idea of what we think the initial target level will 
be, with the caveat that this value may change as we gain experience operating with somewhat 
lower reserves. The more information we can provide in advance, the smoother the transition is 
likely to go. I am also okay with a larger buffer and less probing, but I guess we’re going to find 
out about this pretty soon. 
On the longer-run composition of the SOMA portfolio, I look forward to more briefings 
on what the implications are. I agree with Governor Brainard’s comments about the need for 
that. And this does look like it’s going to be a long process to get to a significantly lower 
average maturity, so we probably can’t make too many mistakes early on anyway. But I do 

w
orry that there could be costs of moving dramatically to a lower-duration balance sheet, and we 
should have significant conversations about that. 
Finally, I have a comment about the collection of documents that we have put out there. 
The January statement, which I am reminded had two bullets—one of them is encapsulated 
within the long-run principles document here, but then there is another one about how we 
preferred the funds rate over balance sheet stuff, which kind of looks like it might be an orphan 
at some point. I just wonder if we could make sure we memorialize that appropriately in some 
comprehensive document. That’s a detail, but it might be useful. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the release of further details on 
our balance sheet normalization plans at this meeting. And after reflection and listening to the 
discussion here, I fully support tapering the pace of our runoff starting in April. 
On the balance sheet taper, first let us stipulate that the concerns regarding our earlier 
balance sheet policy are wrong—in some cases mistaken, in some cases cynically calculated. I 
have tried to pay open-minded and close attention to the best arguments of those who panicked 
in December, and they just don’t hold water. 
To use the analogy I have already used with some of you, they’re the moral equivalent of 
ancient tribes who see a solar eclipse and believe that a dragon is swallowing the sun. The 
priests in the temple should, of course, try to explain what’s actually happening, but if the people 
will not be persuaded and are going to continue to riot, at some point the priests’ responsibility 
for public safety will require them to stop explaining that there is no dragon and start explaining 
how they are going to slay it. [Laughter] 

I
 view that as what we are doing with the evolution of our balance sheet policy, and I 
view it as entirely neat and right, notwithstanding that I would prefer a smaller balance sheet and 
that I believe the concerns about its shrinking to be, to use a technical legal term, nuts. We don’t 
exist to calm markets that are acting irrationally, but market disruptions can easily have effects 
on the real economy. And, where we have the ability to alleviate those effects without damage 
to our operational framework or ability to achieve our dual mandate, I can certainly support our 
doing so. 
That’s the framework through which I view the taper. I do have some concerns. The 
taper doesn’t appear to be widely expected by the market. I imagine at face value the taper will 
be taken as a dovish signal. That makes me a little uncomfortable, given my economic and 
monetary policy outlook—more later—but not so uncomfortable that I can’t appreciate the value 
of keeping with our practice of gradual and deliberate transitions, reference to which I think 
should easily explain the action to those who might not have been expecting it. They are 
expecting the cessation of the balance sheet shrinking, and this can easily be explained as the 
necessary concomitant of that, given how the FOMC generally acts. I can also appreciate the 
insurance value of easing into the next stage of our normalization plans. 
Should there be some event between now and September that further panics the market 
tribe, it will have been a helpful signal to explain that we have not simply allowed the dragon to 
keep eating, but have already drawn our swords and are in battle. And, as Zeynep explained in 
her presentation, the substantive difference is virtually immaterial, which is not surprising, since, 
substantively, this whole taffy pull doesn’t matter anyway. 
I am also fine with retaining the caps on the MBS roll-off. Those caps are unlikely to 
bind except in the most extreme of circumstances, at which time we may be glad they’re in 

pl
ace. I also support at least initially reinvesting the continued roll-off of MBS into Treasury 
securities in such a way as to match the existing maturity composition of the Treasury securities 
market. But like many who have already spoken, I do think this is an issue that involves further 
thought and discussion, and I support flagging in the release that we plan on revisiting this issue. 
Certainly, there are tradeoffs that we have to consider between going short and maximizing our 
ability to influence long-term rates within the constraints of a capped balance sheet set against 
matching the maturity structure of existing securities and minimizing our distorting influence on 
markets. 
There is one part of the statement that makes me a little uncomfortable for a couple of 
reasons. In the second-to-last bullet, we state that the Committee currently anticipates that it will 
likely hold the size of the SOMA portfolio roughly constant for a time. My first area of 
discomfort relates to communications. My understanding—which I assume probably everyone 
around this table other than me has understood for some time, but that I only understood 
relatively recently—is that this time could be only a few months. I worry a little that the public 
might be confused if we announce that the portfolio will be constant for a time, only to start 
growing the balance sheet again a few months after we stop running it down. Maybe we should 
say “hold the size of the SOMA portfolio roughly constant for a bit” just to give a heads-up on 
how short of a period of time that might be. My more fundamental discomfort is with the idea 
that we will begin growing the balance sheet again so quickly after ending the roll-off. 
I admire the staff’s efforts to calculate and characterize the minimum operating level of 
reserves, but the results are almost entirely reliant on survey data based on the hypothetical 
reactions of the respondents. As I’ve said before, I do think that the banks—just like us—are 
learning about their underlying demand for reserves over time, and that we should expect this 

de
mand to shift and change as incentives change. My strong expectation is that if those shifts 
exist, they will be downward. 
I found it notable that, in the February Senior Financial Officer Survey, those banks that 
frequently breached their previously reported lowest comfortable level of reserve balances in the 
time since the September survey also subsequently revised down their estimates for their comfort 
level. Apparently, experience had taught them how to get comfortable. 
So the conundrum here is balancing the desire to provide information to the public soon 
on where we might end up versus holding the level of the balance sheet constant for a bit longer 
to learn about how reserve demand evolves. And the benefit, to me, of holding the balance sheet 
constant for as long as possible is that it will continue to shrink as a percentage of GDP, which is 
what really matters. 
I wonder in the operating framework that we are talking about, where we have set 
$1 trillion—$1.2 trillion?, wherever we set it—as the minimum level of reserves, how much will 
we be able to learn about that underlying reserve demand by keeping the level of balances 
sufficiently high to rule out even the possibility of scarcity? Even if we did determine that the 
minimum operating level could be lower, from a communications and policy standpoint, how 
difficult is it going to be to lower it? Again, maybe the answer is simply to keep it at the 
current level for a long enough time that we “grow into our pants” with respect to the size of this 
balance sheet. 
That brings us to the issue that a few people—President Bullard, President Mester, 
others—have already mentioned of creating a standing repo facility. I see many attractive 
aspects of such a facility, and for me, particularly, it could possibly create the ability to hold the 
balance sheet constant for a longer period of time, allowing it to shrink as a percentage of GDP. 

B
ut reserve demand isn’t directly observable, so such a facility could decrease reserve holdings 
only to the degree that we allowed it to do so. By setting an administered rate as a ceiling, such a 
facility could also lower some of the costs in exploring a smaller balance sheet. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Overall, I support the revised Balance Sheet 
Normalization Principles and Plans, along with the taper in the runoff of Treasury securities, 
although I was intrigued by President Daly’s option of thinking about the market reaction by 
starting that in June and ending in September. So I would support that, too. 
Two observations about the proposed approach for the balance sheet—one related to the 
language in this revised plan, and the other to the more operational aspects of judging reserve 
demand. In addition to announcing the end of the balance sheet runoff, the proposed 
normalization plan makes explicit—in a way that our previous versions of this statement have 
not—that the principal payments would be targeted to match the maturity composition of 
outstanding Treasury securities. I understand from the memo that doing so can help manage 
market expectations and avoid affecting prices in the bills market. I think that makes sense in the 
near term, but I do worry that putting this instruction in the normalization principles could come 
at a cost when the Committee turns to decisionmaking on the long-run composition of our 
portfolio. 
The cost I see is perhaps subtle, but after emphasizing to the public that the federal funds 
rate is our primary policy instrument, we’ll introduce language here that seeks to be neutral on 
balance sheet effects. Not only does the language depart from past statements about our 
normalization principles and plans, which have not been so direct about the maturity composition 

of
 our Treasury security investments, but it also now incorporates a directive to the Desk. So, 
even though the language in the proposed statement indicates these instructions to the Desk will 
be revisited, it could limit the Committee’s options and put decisions in the context of a policy 
action when shortening the maturity composition at some point could put more upward pressure 
on longer-term rates than we desire. To avoid this complication, my own preference would be to 
leave this language out of the revised normalization plan statement and continue to give the Desk 
discretion in choosing the maturity composition of our reinvestments in Treasury securities. 
The second and related observation is about the size of the balance sheet. As we 
transition to a regime with ample but fewer reserves, we are relying heavily on the Senior 
Financial Officer Survey, which has become prominent in our judgment about reserve demand. 
That information is, of course, relevant, but it could be susceptible to prediction errors to the 
extent that survey respondents overstate the underlying demand for reserves. For this reason, I 
am interested in finding ways to guide balance sheet normalization that also rely on observed 
signals from money markets. Indications received from the federal funds market—including the 
dashboard that the Desk has been monitoring—should, in my view, inform when we halt the 
decline in reserves. 
I appreciate the trepidation associated with potentially approaching a steep demand for 
reserves and how that is guiding much of the planning on normalization. However, past surveys 
of primary dealers suggest to me that the funds rate is likely to increase only gradually above the 
IOER rate as reserves decline, and I have looked at recent published research by my own staff 
that’s consistent with this feature of reserves demand. That research finds that declines in 
reserves that persist over several weeks have been associated with only small increases in the 
funds rate relative to the IOER rate. Even after accounting for the increase in repo rates induced 

b
y the rise in Treasury bill issuance, this analysis finds evidence that a significant amount of the 
rise in the funds rate–IOER rate spread in recent years is due to declining reserve balances. 
While this research predicts that demand for reserves will steepen at lower levels of 
reserves, the most recent estimate suggests we are far from this steep portion of demand. 
Instead, given the relatively flat slope of the demand for reserves that we’ve seen in recent years, 
current estimates predict that reserves could decline to around $1.1 trillion, with a federal funds 
rate–IOER rate spread that would rise only modestly to around 10 basis points. Such a rise in 
that spread could be accommodated by setting the IOER rate closer to the bottom of our target 
range. Continuing to reduce the IOER rate toward the lower limit of the range could advance 
multiple objectives, in my opinion, including encouraging banks to economize on their reserve 
holdings and limiting some of the negative “optics” regarding these payments. 
This analysis suggests we may have the ability to more finely probe the limits of balance 
sheet reduction than are currently being considered. Should we learn during this process that 
demand for reserves is steeper at higher levels of reserve balances, I’m confident we have the 
range of tools at our disposal, including open market operations and adjustments in the IOER, 
which, of course, the Desk has demonstrated over the past few years. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also support ending the reduction in our 
asset holdings as of September. As we discussed in our previous meeting, ending asset runoff 
will provide helpful clarity to the market, and it will demonstrate that we have brought monetary 
policy back to normal after the extraordinary steps the Federal Reserve took in response to the 
financial crisis. 

I
 support tapering the runoff on our asset holdings before September. Tapering is a 
gradual approach that will be consistent with how we have changed asset purchases in the past. 
Tapering would also result in a slightly higher level of reserves when the runoff ends. That 
could provide us a bit more time to transition smoothly into the long-run operating regime. 
I do see a bit of risk that starting the taper in April, just a few weeks from now, could 
surprise the public. Even if in our minds, this is just a technical decision, people might think that 
such a sudden change means that we’ve sharply downgraded our economic outlook, as others 
have noted as well, or that we feel it’s urgent to loosen the stance of policy. Therefore, if we 
decide to taper, it will be important to make clear that this choice is to provide a smooth 
transition and that we remain fundamentally optimistic about the economy. 
I support announcing this plan by issuing the proposed balance sheet normalization 
principles and plans. I am comfortable with reinvesting MBS principal payments in Treasury 
securities in proportion to outstanding securities as an interim plan, while we continue to discuss 
the long-run composition of our portfolio. We will be continuing to move toward a portfolio of 
primarily Treasury securities, but we will be preserving optionality about exactly which 
Treasuries to hold in the long run. 
I am also comfortable with retaining the $20 billion monthly cap on MBS redemptions 
after September. Although I continue to believe it is important to unwind our MBS holdings, the 
MBS cap does have the benefit of ensuring that the unwinding will be smooth and gradual. I’d 
also note that we can always remove the cap in the future if economic and financial 
developments make that the right choice. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 

M
R. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the proposed action to end the runoff of 
the balance sheet in September of this year. The arguments supporting a stoppage of the 
reduction in the balance sheet size associated with the implementation of monetary policy are 
clear and valid. I’m also fine with the slow transition to the holding of Treasury securities in lieu 
of agency mortgage-backed securities and believe it is best to pattern our investments in 
Treasury securities in a way that mirrors the composition of outstanding Treasury securities. 
And, like others, I look forward to future deliberations on the long-run composition of the 
portfolio. 
In terms of the taper, I’m fine with the concept and believe it can be justified for at least 
two reasons. First, one can appeal to the symmetry of policy, given the gradual run-up at the 
outset of the normalization policy, and, as the Chair noted, it can also provide insurance against 
the possibility of another taper tantrum. 
My overriding concern regards the timing of the taper, and I believe there is a risk that 
the Committee will be viewed as being reactionary and overly sensitive to short-run economic 
and political considerations. Like President Daly, Governor Bowman, and others, I fear that the 
proposed April action regarding the balance sheet will be misinterpreted as the Committee 
executing monetary policy rather than the creation of an environment that facilitates the 
execution of policy as we intend. 
There has already been much speculation that balance sheet discussions and anticipated 
moves have short-run policy motivations, with some describing them as a capitulation to the 
financial markets, others as an effort to blunt a global economic slowdown, and others as a 
response to short-term political pressures, and there may be even other arguments that my 
colleagues have heard. And, to this end, my preference would be for the taper to begin in June 

r
ather than April. April is just two weeks from now, and such a delay would decouple this action 
from any policy signals we might offer at the conclusion of this meeting. 
Now, I know these speculative views are wrong, and, indeed, we have been trying to 
socialize the operational role of the balance sheet for some time. I have written a blog entry on 
the balance sheet and discussed it explicitly. However, I don’t think that we should feel 
confident that we have fully penetrated the collective psyche and succeeded here. In Governor 
Quarles’s world, I am not sure the dragon is dead. 
We need to be very careful in our communication on this matter, being, as I have stated 
before, monotonously repetitious on this point. And I urge all of us to take this to heart. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the balance sheet plan that 
we’re going to announce tomorrow. I’m somewhat agnostic as to the taper or no-taper. I think, 
coming into this meeting, I had a slight preference for “ no taper,” but, as the Chair said, it 
doesn’t seem to be economically significant, and if there are communication benefits, then I’m 
comfortable with it. 
I think, more broadly, the plan presented by the staff has us continuing to operate 
essentially just as we currently are, with a very high level of reserves, ensuring that the federal 
funds rate lies on top of the IOER rate and is minimizing volatility. In my view, this plan puts a 
very high weight on minimizing volatility and little weight on our original objective of shrinking 
reserves to the minimum size consistent with effective implementation of policy. 
The memo, as I read it, shows no cost to having a larger balance sheet, and I don’t think 
that that’s right. I read the memo as showing big reserve buffers, to make sure that we’re on the 

fla
t part of the demand curve, and then conducting frequent open market operations (OMOs) to 
preserve those buffers. And I thought one of our goals was, as small a balance sheet as possible 
with little need for frequent OMOs. Now it seems like we’re going to end up with a big balance 
sheet and still a lot of OMOs. 
So I see potential benefits to a smaller level of reserves. A lower level of reserves would 
put upward pressure on the federal funds rate and other markets. A small differential between 
market rates and the IOER rate, as others have said, would help address potential concerns that 
we’re subsidizing the banking sector. I think a smaller balance sheet could also reduce political 
pressure on the Fed and reduce concern that we’ve got a big “footprint” in capital markets. And 
a smaller balance sheet could create more policy space for us in the event of future lower-bound 
episodes. 
Now, a smaller level of reserves would likely increase day-to-day volatility in the federal 
funds rate, but I don’t see why that would necessarily be costly. We have a range that we 
announce around the federal funds rate. If the federal funds rate moves around a little bit within 
that range, I don’t see why that’s a huge problem. In my view, the staff’s estimate of $1.2 
trillion seems like it’s too high. Our estimate, as Governor Quarles said, relies on surveying 
banks that have an incentive to report high demand to the extent that we’re subsidizing reserves. 
Yesterday I went to George Washington University bookstore to buy a book. My first 
epiphany was that they don’t carry books there anymore. [Laughter] But by happenstance, they 
happened to have the book that I was looking for, because they had had a book signing some 
months earlier for this book. So I was successful in buying a book. But then, when they wanted 
to charge me a nickel for a bag, I opted not to take the bag. If there’s actually a little bit of a 

sp
read between the IOER rate and banks’ alternatives, they may actually choose alternatives 
instead of just giving away bags for free. 
In addition, we’ve asked about reserve demand, given that the IOER rate is at the market 
rate. Again, at some higher spread they might make other decisions—I keep going back to “what 
was demand for reserves 15 years ago?” It’s just shocking how little the demand there was when 
there was a big spread in price. Now we’re paying them, and we shouldn’t be surprised if 
they’re saying, “We want a lot of this stuff for free.” 
And then, finally, one factor driving high demand is likely our own supervisory and 
regulatory guidance, and I think that that’s something that we should take a look at. Maybe this 
isn’t the right forum for it, but if we really are telling banks, “You should hold reserves and not 
T-bills,” I think we need to ask ourselves, why are we doing that? Does it really make sense? 
A different approach to estimating how far we can reduce reserves would be to postpone 
resumption of asset purchases until we see some upward pressure on the federal funds rate, 
volatility in the federal funds rate, or both, and to minimize risk associated with this. Like 
others, I’m open to exploring a temporary repo facility just to make sure that we’re not taking 
any unnecessary risks. 
The last comment I’ll make is that I don’t think that we should be, at this point, 
announcing some minimum operating level of reserves. I think that that’s going to short-cut our 
policy deliberations on what our final destination should be, and I don’t think we’re ready to do 
that yet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like others, I thought that not 
only the memos, but also the sequence of discussions, including today’s, have been very helpful 

an
d valuable. I do agree that these are important issues we are discussing, and we want to get 
them right, and communication is a big part of that. I support the proposed approach in all of its 
elements. I agree it’s prudent, gradual, predictable, and—I would add another favorite Fed 
word—measured. 
On the taper, I do think the argument is essentially one of “This is what we have done in 
the past.” Now, I can go back in the transcripts and look at each time we’ve discussed variations 
in the taper, and I think I said myself, “I don’t see the reason we’re doing this or the need to do 
this” each and every time, because according to our models and our very analytical brains, this 
doesn’t matter and it’s irrelevant. And yet, out of prudence, out of caution, out of, I would say, 
good judgment, each time we’ve done it that way, and each time I’ve gone along, and each time 
it’s actually worked, at least in the execution, very well. And I don’t think the markets will react 
overly to the fact that we’re doing what we’ve done in the past. It does have to be communicated 
well, and I think the plan to describe this is “This is just the way the Fed does things.” It’s a 
pretty powerful argument. 
In terms of “Are we signaling some pessimism about the economy?”—the bigger 
question is going to be tomorrow, regarding the SEP and the FOMC statement. There’s going to 
be a lot of attention about “How do we balance our message—are we positive, are we negative 
about the economy?” I don’t think the taper will, in particular, add significantly to what is 
already a bit of a balancing act. 
In terms of the longer-run issue of the composition of the balance sheet, I agree with—let 
me make sure I’ve got the list right—Governor Brainard, President Mester, President Evans, and 
many others who make the point that this is what, in my words, is a consequential decision. It is 

a
 monetary policy decision. I do want to “push back” on some of the comments that I think 
almost everyone made suggesting that the balance sheet decision is not a policy decision. 
Now, in terms of the issue of whether to taper or not, as we talked about, this is a 
“rounding error” policy decision. But our decision about the composition of the balance sheet is 
a significant policy decision. It’s one that we want to think about carefully. We want to get the 
best analysis, and we want to be deliberate in coming to that. That is why I strongly supported 
the language in our normalization statement that said, for the time being, or initially, that we’ll 
reinvest the MBS proceeds into the broadest range of Treasury securities in line with the 
outstanding stock, to be as neutral and noncommittal about our plans there. I do think if we said, 
“Oh, we’re going to put them mostly in T-bills or all T-bills,” it would be a very strong signal 
about our intentions. And I agree with the approach of trying to be as neutral as possible. I 
really do like the change in the language that says outright that we will be deliberating on this 
issue in the future, and that we will revisit these decisions as we think about that. 
The last point I’ll make about this is—and we’ve heard it in the discussion today, which I 
thought was really helpful—that the answer about policies, about how the composition of our 
balance sheet affects policy space, is not at all as clear as people seem to think. I’ll go back to 
President Evans’s and Governor Brainard’s comments—if we move to a very short-duration 
balance sheet in the steady state, that will cause the term premium, according to our models and 
the Fed view, to move up. That will move the natural rate of interest lower. That will give us 
less policy space on short-term interest rates and more policy space in terms of QE or Operation 
Twist or however you want to think about it. 
It’s not just a matter of saying “I want to create policy space on this side.” You have to 
think about how balance sheet choices affect financial conditions and the underlying 

fu
ndamentals as part of that. I don’t come to a conclusion from that statement, because I think it 
is complicated. You have to think about a lot of different dimensions of this. I also don’t want 
to rush to judgment, either making a decision or inadvertently signaling that we have a clear 
view on that. I think we do our best work when we have a number of further meetings, a lot of 
staff work that helps us think about this and with those, we can, we hope, come to a good 
decision. So I do agree with everybody who says, “We really want to have a very careful, 
thoughtful discussion of the composition of the balance sheet before we either make a decision 
on that or signal that.” 
In terms of slaying dragons, as a lifelong member of the Dungeons and Dragons Club 
[laughter], I am a huge advocate for slaying this dragon. I believe that we will not slay it with 
words. We will not slay it with convincing analysis. I think that the QT story will die when QT 
ends. And, in a way, that’s what we’re accomplishing—disregarding the fact that I don’t buy 
into QT any more than anyone else—by adding clarity and a gradual and predictable path to the 
end of our balance sheet normalization. With this, I do think that this dragon, if not dead, will at 
least go back to sleep. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Good. Well, thank you very much—very interesting set of 
comments. And what I want to do is sleep on them tonight and then tomorrow morning come 
back with something on the principles and discuss. So thank you for great comments. 
And now let’s move to our second agenda item, which covers the regular topics as well 
as a discussion of the staff memo focused on possible operating procedures, looking at an ample-
reserves regime. Simon, over to you. 
MR. POTTER.
2 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the previous FOMC meeting, 
as summarized in the top-left panel of your first exhibit, major global equity indexes 
have increased and credit spreads have tightened, while U.S. Treasury yields and the 
2 The materials used by Mr. Potter and Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 2). 

ma
rket-implied path of the policy rate have declined. This pattern of market moves 
extends those observed since the turn of the year, as shown in the middle column. 
According to contacts, these moves were largely in response to shifts in expectations 
regarding Committee policy, both actual and perceived, that resulted from FOMC 
communications stressing patience with respect to further increases in the target range 
and flexibility on balance sheet policy. 
Indeed, the top-right panel shows responses to a survey question in which 
respondents were asked to rate the factors driving risk asset prices since the start of 
the year. Changes in perceptions of the FOMC’s reaction function, particularly 
regarding interest rate policy, were rated as the most important factor by a large 
margin. In a separate question in the March survey, respondents generally cited clear 
and consistent messaging regarding “patience” as contributing to effective FOMC 
communications. The overall rating provided by respondents generally moved back 
up to levels seen before the November FOMC meeting. 
There has been much market discussion of what motivated the shift in Fed 
communications about the policy outlook. We can use the Desk’s surveys to assess 
whether respondents believe the Fed’s interest rate reaction function has changed 
based on hypothetical deviations in inflation and unemployment from the SEP 
medians. The results of this question are shown in the middle-left panel, with the 
upper matrix showing results from the March survey and the lower matrix showing 
results from the July 2018 survey, when the question was last asked. As shown in the 
rightmost column, the change from July to March in respondents’ views of the 
Committee’s sensitivity in setting the federal funds rate target seems to now indicate 
a somewhat smaller reaction to upward surprises in inflation if the unemployment rate 
is at or higher than the SEP median, as highlighted in yellow. 
According to market intelligence gathered outside the survey, many investors 
have focused on the large and sudden change in financial conditions witnessed in 
December, particularly the decline in the stock market, as the motivation for the so-
called pivot. Market participants seem to agree that shifting perceptions of the 
FOMC’s reaction to financial conditions, whether accurate or not, have been a 
leading driver of global markets over the past three months. That said, a number of 
investors have highlighted that recent data that indicate a weakening in the outlook 
makes the shift to a “patient” stance seem somewhat prescient. 
Regarding actions and communications on interest rate policy that market 
participants expect from this meeting, survey respondents assign essentially no 
chance of a rate hike tomorrow. While many foresee changes in the characterization 
of current economic conditions in the statement, very few anticipate any material 
changes to the economic outlook nor to the patient stance. 
Regarding the SEP, respondents also broadly anticipate the median rate 
projections at year-ends 2019, 2020, and 2021 will decline 25 basis points from their 
December levels. As shown by the red circles in the middle-right chart, the median 
responses indicate an expectation that the median “dots” will show one 25 basis point 

i
ncrease in 2019 and one further increase in 2020, followed by no change in 2021. 
With respect to survey respondents’ own projections for the target range later this 
year, the median of the modes is now for one rate increase in December 2019 and no 
further change through the end of 2021, as shown by the gray circles. This compares 
with two rate increases in 2019 implied by the medians in the previous survey. Both 
the probability-weighted survey expectations, shown by the diamonds, and the 
market-implied path of the policy rate, shown by the blue lines, also fell over the 
period, consistent with the view that the Committee would most likely maintain the 
target range at its current level for the majority of the year. 
Indeed, as shown in the bottom-left panel, the average probability assigned to no 
change in the policy rate in 2019 increased to nearly 40 percent, from roughly 
25 percent in the previous survey. As the likelihood of no change increased, the 
average probability assigned to the next policy action this year being an increase to 
the target range declined to just under 50 percent, while expectations of the next 
move being a decrease in 2019 were little changed 
Looking further ahead, market participants are very focused on recent remarks 
from several participants on potential changes to the monetary policy strategy and a 
possible shift to average inflation targeting, and it is possible that some of this 
communication influenced the reaction function results mentioned earlier. Although 
longer forward measures of inflation compensation in the United States have not 
changed materially over the intermeeting period, market participants have been very 
attentive to how such an evolution in central banks’ monetary policy frameworks 
might influence inflation expectations. For context, one indicator of forward inflation 
expectations across advanced economies derived from inflation swaps markets, 
shown in the bottom-right panel, has been hovering around the bottom quartile of its 
range since 2011 despite significant improvements in labor market conditions over 
this time. 
I will now turn to your second exhibit and foreign central bank developments. 
Measures announced by the ECB in March, which included an extension of forward 
guidance on interest rates and the announcement of another round of targeted long-
term refinancing operations, led to a decline in euro-area equity markets and 
particularly bank stocks, shown in the top-left panel, as well as declines in euro-area 
rates. Market contacts attributed the price reaction to a perception that the measures 
were not as stimulative as might have been expected in view of the significant 
downgrades to the ECB’s real growth and inflation forecasts. More specifically, 
market pricing of the first increase to the policy rate had already pointed to the second 
half of 2020, well past the date of the revised forward guidance, and the terms of the 
new refinancing operations were perceived as not as generous as many had hoped. 
This disappointment further solidified a conviction among many investors that the 
ECB has limited to no policy space to ease in response to negative shocks. 
Slowing growth and the scope for policy response has also been a focus with 
regard to China. In response to disappointing data, the Chinese authorities have 
moved toward an easier fiscal and monetary policy stance. As shown in the top-right 

pa
nel, China’s aggregate credit growth has rebounded slightly in recent months 
relative to the declining trend observed last year. Some market participants have 
seized on the recent uptick as possibly portending a stabilization in economic growth 
in the coming quarters, though others caution that this could come at the expense of a 
rising debt-to-GDP ratio and an increase of financial market risk. 
As shown in the middle-left panel, the Shanghai Composite index rose notably 
since the turn of the year, driven in part by fiscal and monetary stimulus measures as 
well as perceived progress on trade negotiations. The latter have also contributed to a 
rebound in the Chinese RMB since late November. While Chinese markets have 
been buoyed by positive momentum in trade talks, risks regarding the eventual 
outcome remain, with investors particularly sensitive to details surrounding the 
prospect for a reduction or elimination of tariff rates and the contours of any 
enforcement mechanisms. While officials from the United States and China have not 
yet reached a final agreement, and the date of any meeting between Presidents Trump 
and Xi looks to have been pushed off, the prospect of a deal has been increasingly 
priced into Chinese and other risk assets. 
Although not obviously affecting risk asset prices outside of the United Kingdom, 
developments associated with Brexit remain a source of uncertainty. As expected, the 
U.K. Parliament voted to avoid a so-called “hard Brexit” and extend Article 50 ahead 
of the March 29 deadline. However, the European Commission has not yet 
responded regarding the extension, and the final form of any deal remains unknown. 
Consistent with ongoing investor uncertainty over the outcome, risk reversals on the 
pound–dollar currency pair continue to point to higher demand for protection against 
pound depreciation relative to the dollar, shown in the middle-right panel. 
The broad dollar appreciated around ½ percent over the intermeeting period, 
reflecting gains against the euro, the yen, and the Mexican peso, as shown in the 
bottom-left panel, largely on concerns about the outlook for these economies. The 
most liquid emerging market currencies also depreciated slightly over the 
intermeeting period, but the bigger story has been their remarkable stability over the 
past six months, despite concerns regarding global growth. 
In addition to these concerns, measures of policy uncertainty remain at very high 
levels, yet at the same time there has been a notable reduction in financial market 
volatility since the start of the year. This is illustrated in the bottom-right panel, 
which plots the VIX against a standard measure of policy uncertainty. A number of 
market participants have made note of the low levels of cross-asset volatility against 
the backdrop of high policy uncertainty, citing the shift in Federal Reserve 
communications as a critical factor supporting risk appetite in such an uncertain 
environment. I will now turn the briefing over to Lorie. 
MS. LOGAN. Thank you. Starting on your third exhibit, I’ll briefly cover 
conditions in money markets before turning to a discussion on the transition to a 
regime of ample reserves. 

O
verall, the current implementation framework continues to work well, with 
overnight money market rates generally within the federal funds rate target range over 
the period. The effective federal funds rate remained equal to the IOER rate, as 
shown in the top-left panel, and the distribution of trades in the federal funds market 
was little changed. 
While overnight unsecured rates remained stable, the secured overnight financing 
rate (SOFR) and other repo rates exhibited volatility over the January and February 
month-end dates, as shown in your top-right panel. Market participants have 
expressed uncertainty about the reason for the volatility on period-end statement dates 
since year-end, though they continue to note persistently high net dealer inventories 
of Treasury securities, shown in your middle-left panel, and Treasury security 
issuance coinciding with month-end statement dates as contributing factors. Term 
and forward-starting Treasury repo rates already suggest notably higher rates over the 
March quarter-end turn. 
Despite continued reductions in the Federal Reserve’s agency MBS and Treasury 
holdings, there was a modest increase in reserve balances of $72 billion over the 
intermeeting period. The overall increase in reserves was driven by the sharp decline 
in the Treasury’s General Account, shown in your middle-right panel. In particular, 
the TGA fell around $200 billion from January to March 1 before the reinstatement of 
the debt limit on March 2. 
Over the upcoming intermeeting period, with the combination of changes in the 
TGA and additional asset redemptions, we project reserves to decline to around 
$1.4 trillion by early May, shown in the bottom-left panel, which is below the lowest 
level reached thus far of $1.55 trillion in December. There will also likely be some 
days with large swings around the trend of declining reserves, as depicted in your 
bottom-right panel, with reserves projected to fall more than $200 billion in late April 
as a result of tax receipts. We will be closely monitoring the measures presented in 
the intermeeting report on reserves conditions, in order to see if there are any 
emerging signs of reserves scarcity during this time. 
I’d like to turn now to the transition to a regime of lower, but still ample, reserves 
on your fourth exhibit. In January, the Committee announced its intention to continue 
to implement monetary policy in an ample-reserves regime in which reserves are 
supplied in sufficient quantities to maintain administered rates as the primary means 
of interest rate control, and active management of the supply of reserves is not 
required. 
As the end to redemptions approaches, our attention will turn to the final 
transition into this long-run implementation framework, some elements of which are 
presented in the top-left panel. Although the Committee has decided to maintain an 
ample-reserves regime, this transition will represent a meaningful shift, because we 
will be moving from an operating framework driven by the FOMC’s asset policies to 
one driven by Federal Reserve liabilities. Under this framework, it is necessary to 
understand the path of Federal Reserve liabilities, both by assessing banks’ demand 

f
or reserves and by forecasting the growth and volatility in nonreserve liabilities. 
This information will allow the Desk to plan periodic asset purchases to supply an 
amount of reserves that will meet banks’ minimum demand for reserves at the IOER 
rate, plus a buffer to cushion against anticipated fluctuations in nonreserve liabilities 
that reduce reserves. 
At current reserve levels, or perhaps even a bit lower, Desk operations would not 
rely as heavily on precise estimates of reserve demand and forecasts of nonreserve 
liabilities. However, with the Committee’s preference to operate at a significantly 
lower level of reserves, though still one consistent with the ample-reserves regime, 
the staff will need to put greater emphasis on these forecasts. Additionally, financial 
institutions will have greater need for information about the level of reserves that the 
Federal Reserve intends to maintain so that they can incorporate this into their 
liquidity management. With this objective in mind, the staff has developed an 
approach to maintaining an ample-reserves framework with a lower reserve level by 
establishing a minimum operating level of reserves. 
A minimum operating level would represent the staff’s assessment of the 
minimum amount of reserves that we are reasonably confident would be sufficient to 
maintain an ample-reserves regime. This assessment is based on an estimate of the 
banking system’s minimum demand for reserves at rates near the IOER rate, plus an 
allowance for uncertainty around this estimate. As shown in the top-right panel, on 
the basis of the Senior Financial Officer Survey, which asks banks directly about their 
reserve demand, our current estimate of the minimum aggregate demand for reserves 
with market rates near the IOER rate is around $860 billion. However, importantly, 
we don’t solely rely on survey responses. A broad range of information, listed in 
your middle-left panel, can inform these assessments. 
Because there is uncertainty around a point estimate for the banking system’s 
minimum demand for reserves, the staff currently assess that a conservative minimum 
operating level of a bit more than $1 trillion, or $1.05 trillion, would be appropriate, 
at least initially. The additional allowance for uncertainty, shown in light blue in the 
top-right panel, would provide greater assurance against rate volatility should our 
point estimate be inaccurate, or if there are distributional frictions of reserve holdings 
that require higher reserve levels. As we enter this new phase with lower reserve 
levels, the public will be closely watching our ability to control rates. Therefore, 
making this transition successfully can establish credibility. 
As we gain more certainty about reserve demand by operating at lower reserve 
levels, the minimum operating level could be moved lower. Managing a minimum 
operating level would allow for a controlled transition to lower reserve levels, if 
deemed appropriate, by providing control over the increment of decline. 
Periodic asset purchases will be necessary to keep the average supply of reserves 
large enough that the daily level of reserves remains above the minimum operating 
level given high-frequency fluctuations and trend growth in nonreserve liabilities. 
Consistent with the Committee’s desire to maintain a regime in which active 

m
anagement of reserves is not required, the Desk could use medium-term forecasts to 
plan these purchases over a longer time horizon. These periodic asset purchases will 
essentially offset trend growth in nonreserve liabilities and leave a buffer of reserves 
to absorb daily changes as well. We currently anticipate that these purchases would 
start somewhere between the end of the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter 
of 2020, as shown in the shaded region in the middle-right panel. However, there is a 
modest amount of flexibility regarding the exact start date of purchases, and we 
would consult with the Committee on that decision. Projected reserve levels relative 
to the current assessment of the minimum operating level are shown in the red line of 
that panel. 
The bottom-left panel depicts how reserve levels would decline if the minimum 
operating level, shown in light blue, is lowered over time. This is just an illustrative 
example. Although the staff view the initial minimum operating level as 
conservative, the resulting average reserves of around $1.2 trillion over the period to 
2021 would still be meaningfully below the current reserve level of around 
$1.6 trillion and similar to, or slightly lower than, what most market participants 
currently appear to expect. In the most recent surveys of primary dealers and market 
participants, the median estimate of the lowest weekly average reserve level between 
now and 2025 was $1.2 trillion, with a fairly tight interquartile range of responses 
from around $1.1 trillion to $1.3 trillion, as shown in the bottom-right panel. Given 
the normal variability in reserve levels, the projection of the lowest weekly reserve 
level, assuming a minimum operating level a little more than $1 trillion, would be at 
the lower end of these estimates. 
We are confident that this operational approach to an ample-reserves regime with 
a lower reserve level would be effective in controlling interest rates, flexible in 
responding to changing market conditions, and efficient to operate. In the coming 
months, we will continue to check our estimates of reserve demand and monitor 
conditions in reserve markets for signs of scarcity, and periodically consult with the 
Committee on changes in our assessment of the minimum operating level based on 
this new information. If the Committee is comfortable with this approach, the Desk 
could also plan to release a Desk statement later this year that could establish an 
initial minimum operating reserves level and, thus, provide a time frame in which the 
Desk might begin to grow the portfolio to offset trend growth in the Fed’s liabilities. 
I’ll briefly conclude with two additional operational updates. First, the Desk 
intends to release a statement in May indicating that we will convert some of the 
SOMA’s holdings of Freddie Mac MBS securities to uniform MBS (UMBS). 
Additionally, consistent with the Desk’s plans to develop operational readiness for 
conducting transactions in UMBS, the staff intend to conduct a small-value UMBS 
purchase next month. 
Second, following an opportunity for public comment in February on the 
inclusion of selected deposits data into the calculation of the OBFR, the Desk intends 
to release a statement in April announcing that selected deposits data will be 
incorporated in the calculation of the OBFR beginning in early May. 

F
inally, a full list of upcoming and completed small-value exercises is located in 
Appendix 1. Thank you, Mr. Chairman—that concludes our prepared remarks. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Comments or questions for Simon and Lorie? President 
Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Just looking at chart number 17, there are sharp declines that occur 
in reserve balances from 2015 to roughly 2018, and then we don’t see nearly as many spikes over 
the past year. So when you’re estimating the volatility of reserves, are you estimating it 
primarily over the past year or over the past four years? Because it doesn’t look like it’s the 
same process, and it does seem that there are periods when we get pretty substantial negative 
spikes. So could you talk a little bit about the series and the period you’re using for your 
estimation? Because it looks like, at least potentially, those estimates will be highly sensitive to 
that period. 
MS. LOGAN. I think a lot of this volatility is being driven by the Treasury’s 
management of the TGA and the degree to which they’re keeping that fairly stable. So as we do 
the forecasts, we are forecasting what we expect them to do in terms of managing the TGA over 
that horizon. I think the second area of volatility comes from the statement dates. We do get 
some swings in the foreign repo pool around some of the statement dates, and some of those 
swings were a little bit sharper during the volatility in previous years than we’ve been seeing 
more recently. 
MR. POTTER. But we’re not forecasting this. We’re forecasting things that produced 
this. So that is an easier thing than trying to forecast this time series. 
MR. ROSENGREN. So if we had had a $200 billion buffer over the past four years, how 
often do you think we would have ended up piercing what we thought was a sufficient balance? 

M
S. LOGAN. I should note that some of the additional volatility early on in 2015 was 
related to the overnight RRP when rates were closer to the overnight RRP. Now that repo rates 
are so high relative to the overnight RRP, we’re not getting that fluctuation as well. 
MR. POTTER. I think you’re asking a really good question. If we’d been operating with 
a $200 billion buffer and we’d had a lower level of reserves, would we have produced a miss that 
could have pushed us below the level? I think the current assessment that we have in the data is 
“no,” but that’s something we’re going to be looking at, particularly over the next few months. 
So you’d expect to see perhaps more estimates of this and what that looks at. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Other comments or questions? President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Just two comments. To reiterate some of the comments that were made 
earlier—one is, I agree with President Kashkari. We operated before the crisis in a corridor 
system with volatility in the federal funds rate. We shouldn’t be afraid of that as long as we can 
control it, right? And so, after we sort of settle into what the “new normal” is, if we probe where 
the lower level of reserves are, I don’t think we should be necessarily afraid of some volatility as 
long as, again, we can control it. 
The second issue. I want to reemphasize what President Bostic said, that—and I’ll 
rephrase it—“Monotony is a virtue,” right? So we should communicate early and often that this 
is an operational issue, not a policy one—save the composition of the balance sheet question. I 
think the more we can do that, the better. And we might put together—as you were describing 
Lorie—a Desk statement that outlines this in detail. I am very supportive of moving this 
essentially to the Desk and away from the Committee and making this an operational issue to 
make it clear that we’re trying to separate this so that it is not a policy issue—again, save the 

ba
lance sheet composition question. So I think that in communication, the more we can say that, 
the more we can just drive that point home, I think that will serve us well. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. So my questions relate a little bit to the comments I made earlier. I 
fully support the plan to revisit the reserves number every so often, revise it upon the information 
that we get, but how confident can we be that we really understand what the level of reserve 
demand is going to be if we’re operating in a regime that rules out even the possibility of 
scarcity? 
Then the second question related to that is, if we do achieve a level of confidence through 
the tools that you’ve described: what if the lowest comfortable level of reserves is declining? I 
mean, what would our response be to that? How would we communicate what was happening 
there? And would that be viewed as a change in the stance of monetary policy if we were 
lowering the level of reserves? Or do we do nothing—which may be a perfectly acceptable 
answer—meaning that, when we understand that the level of reserves is, in fact, lower than we 
thought, we’re not going to do anything except keep the balance sheet constant for a longer 
period as currency rises and replaces reserves down to what we think that new lower level is. 
MS. LOGAN. Having the minimum operating reserve level is a way of controlling that 
testing. I think if you wanted to see how conditions were at these lower levels, if you look at the 
red line in one of the panels, when it hits that new lowest level, you would learn a little bit about 
how money markets behaved at that new lower level. And, through that, plus surveys and other 
bank microdata, you could make a judgment to then lower the minimum operating reserve level 
in future months. 

I th
ink that could be communicated as a very technical matter, as a matter of the Desk, 
and what that drives is our forecast for the monthly permanent purchases. So if you drop the 
minimum operating level, our monthly purchases over those preceding six-month forecasts are 
going to come down relative to where they were before. I think, for market participants, the 
minimum gives them a sense of what to expect, that we’re not going to go lower. But it’s also 
helping them understand how we’re calibrating the monthly purchases that we’ll be doing. So I 
see it very much as just a controlled way of testing. 
MR. POTTER. So to go to your other point, if we get this number too low, we’ll find 
out. That’s easy. 
MR. QUARLES. Right. 
MR. POTTER. Your point is, what if it’s too high? 
MR. QUARLES. What if it’s way too high— 
MR. POTTER. There’s nothing in this regime that helps you find that out. 
MR. QUARLES. Yes. 
MR. POTTER. We are analyzing the survey data, what the individual responses say, and 
you pointed out—I think you read the memo, really, with quite a bit of care—it’s important to 
understand the people who frequently breach their reported lowest comfortable level of reserves. 
And I think understanding what they are putting down is really going to be important. But I 
think the memo emphasized they’re a small set and they don’t hold that many reserves. 
The global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) hold a lot of the reserves. We’ve got 
all of them. And I think, with one minor breach, they’re not getting close. How they react, what 
they do, and what their business models look like are some things that we need to track. We do 
talk to them in a structured dialogue pretty frequently. One of the largest did drop their reported 

lo
west comfortable level of reserves this time, and I think that what we anticipate will happen, if 
we get more used to this, is that other people will drop. It’s possible other banks will have a 
reaction when it goes up, and then we’ll just have to assess that. If we’re doing this every six 
months, then we’ll observe all of the behavior after we’ve got the survey responses. That allows 
us to see if they are actually being true to what their survey response is. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. I’m just trying to follow this. Can you explain what would happen if 
we didn’t announce a minimum level of reserves? Because one of my concerns, and I may be 
misunderstanding, is that it feels a little bit like inflation expectations. We survey professional 
forecasters: “What’s your outlook for inflation?” “Oh, 2 percent.” You know they pay attention 
to what we’re saying. So a concern that I have is, if we announce a minimum and we do a 
survey, they’re going to repeat the minimum back to us. What happens if we don’t put out a 
minimum? 
MS. LOGAN. In terms of the bank survey, we started this process over a year ago with 
the structured outreach from banks to understand where in the institution these decisions were 
made. After we learned a little bit more about how they made the decisions, how they are 
thinking, then the Fed staff worked together to figure out the questions to ask. I think we had a 
pretty good understanding of how they were forming their views. By watching their behavior 
relative to those views, we’ll learn a lot about what’s forming them. I think they are changing 
those particular numbers—I think we do see that—they know that we’re watching those 
numbers, and they are making those decisions as committees for their institution. 
MR. POTTER. You might have been asking it slightly differently. If we put out a 
number that says $1.05 trillion, and then we survey people: “What do you think the minimum 

le
vel of reserves will be in the system,” they should say, “1.05.” Inflation is much harder to 
control than that. I don’t think that’s a problem in the regime that you’ve chosen. This is exactly 
what you want to tell the bank: “Have confidence that we are going to be operating every day in 
an ample-reserves regime, so don’t make any plans for not operating in that regime.” 
MR. KASHKARI. But I guess my question is, couldn’t we say we’re operating in an 
ample-reserves regime without specifying a number? 
MR. POTTER. We could, and they would work out the number reasonably quickly from 
the behavior that they saw from us. 
MS. LOGAN. What that number is helping us do is communicate with the market how 
we are sizing the monthly purchases, and that is what really matters for the market. Those 
monthly purchases can drive trading behavior in the market. So it’s the combination of those 
two things that’s important for what we’re communicating. 
Again, I think if you announced $1 trillion, and then you said, “Oh, we’ve been looking 
at survey data, we’ve been watching behavior, we’re going to drop that over the next cycle,” then 
they’ll know we’re going to drop the monthly purchase sizes, and they will be able to forecast 
what those would be. I don’t think there’s anything that would be forming in markets that would 
prevent you from moving that minimum up and down over time. 
MR. POTTER. I think what we tried to do is design something incredibly geeky, and we 
can talk for hours about it, but hopefully that will bore people. [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Other comments? President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you. Part of a choice of a buffer is how much insurance I 
want against volatility. If volatility is truly costless, then I don’t need very much insurance. But 
if volatility does have a significant cost to the economy as a whole, it’s not that I’m afraid of it, 

but
 that it is not costless. It would be good, as we’re thinking about this, to actually calibrate it 
in terms of how much the cost would be and what the insurance premium is necessary to get 
there. It does seem like option pricing or some other way of capturing how costly it is to have 
the volatility, what we’re paying for that volatility, and how much insurance would cost is a 
useful framework to help think about what the right size of the buffer would be. 
I think a number of people in the go-round highlighted they didn’t think there was much 
cost to volatility. And I guess my prior is that creating volatility with no economic benefit 
doesn’t seem like the right tradeoff. But I could be convinced that the costs are so low to the 
economy of having a more volatile operating procedure that maybe I don’t need much insurance 
against that. But I’d like to understand that much better. 
MR. POTTER. I think the value we found in this operating regime is, it’s much less 
volatile than the previous one. Then we would present to you the average federal funds rate, and 
that was moving around a lot. There was a way for people to trade at the end of the day—that 
was banks trading with banks. That is a very small part of the market now. That would have to 
come back if we saw banks getting short of reserves. It would be hard for them at the end of the 
day, because there is not such a thick market. And they’re very reluctant to go to the obvious 
entity—which is us—to borrow money, because of all of the stigma associated with that. 
MR. ROSENGREN. But it’s not just volatility to the federal funds market. It’s volatility 
to all short-term rates. 
MR. POTTER. Every single market you’ll see the volatility. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans, did you have something? 

M
R. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. It took me a little while. I’m comfortable with the 
plan for the minimum operating level of reserves. I have to say, I’m a little lost by our 
discussion here. I’m not sure I have a question, but just if I could think out loud for a minute. 
We decided to go after a floor system for our operating system, and we’re characterizing 
that as an ample-reserves system. And so I’m kind of trying to remind myself what the big 
benefit of a lower balance sheet size is supposed to be, the least level of reserves that’s consistent 
with this. Is it an economic cost of having a larger balance sheet? Are we subsidizing banks if 
reserves are larger? The IOER rate is going to be lower than market rates. I think the story has 
been that it’s not really subsidizing banks because market rates are higher and they could do 
something else. Banks have to expend resources to manage their reserves if they feel that it’s a 
little more scarce with that minimum level than under an ample-reserves system. And the 
marginal cost for us to produce these reserves is zero, so, efficiency says it’s not really a 
problem. 
I keep coming back to the earlier discussions where there was a political optics argument 
that roundtripping our balance sheet might provide more credibility in the future. I don’t really 
hear enough of that being discussed today to feel comfortable with that argument. Maybe that is 
the argument underlying a lot of this. But if it is, I think it’s worth a lot more discussion than 
just these, “I think I’d like a lower level of reserves if we—”. So that’s where I’m kind of lost 
over all of this. 
CHAIRMAN POWELL. Thomas? 
MR. LAUBACH. Sorry. President Evans’s intervention rendered my comment obsolete 
that was directed to President Rosengren. In the past, the staff has always found it difficult to 

q
uantify in some way what seem to be some costs associated with a larger balance sheet. If you 
don’t have that, then the natural answer should be zero interest rate volatility. 
CHAIR POWELL. No two-hander, John? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I interpreted President Rosengren’s comment to be that he 
wanted to understand what kind of volatility we would see as we move this allowance, the light 
blue part, smaller or larger. What would the tradeoffs be in daily volatility? Would it maybe last 
a week or something? What would that world look like in which we didn’t have such large 
buffers? And just to understand what the tradeoff is, I do think, without any quantitative analysis 
around that, we kind of run into the problem that President Evans is describing, which is a very 
qualitative “I just don’t feel we’re where we want to be.” So I do think having some way of 
gauging, “Oh, I see—we would see interest rate volatility of this kind. Well, I have now looked 
at that picture, and I don’t like that.” So can we maybe come to a conclusion that way? 
By the way, can I use this brief moment to say this? President Evans’s remark does 
remind me of a task that my parents gave me when I was growing up in Sacramento. When you 
live in a very hot, dry climate—we had a swimming pool—the water evaporates rapidly. And 
my job was to keep the pool full, so you have a hose and you put the hose by the pool and you 
run it for a few hours to make sure the swimming pool is full. And, invariably, being a teenage 
boy, I would forget about the hose and flood the yard. [Laughter] My dad, who would find this 
not a good completion of the task I was assigned, would say, “Why did you flood the yard 
again?” And I’d say, “You told me to fill the pool. The pool is full. I did what you asked.” 
[Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. With that, I would just add my own comments here. I think 
you’ve laid out a thoughtful framework. A thought I have is, really, that it feels like the settings 

on t
he dials are essentially putting a very high loss function on any volatility—any volatility—
and I don’t know that I agree with that. I have no appetite for the Armageddon scenario where 
we have repeated volatility all over the place. I have no interest in that at all. Neither am I afraid 
of the kind of early signals that you’d probably get from scarcity if you were having reserves 
organically decline at a very slow rate according to the Harker plan. 
I would also say, if we’re apparently about to announce tomorrow that we may pursue 
holding the balance sheet constant, then I’d have a hard time saying that we were soon going to 
do a reverse taper or that we would hold the balance sheet constant for only 90 days. That would 
feel a little bit pointless, in a way. 
So I guess all I’m saying is, I feel very risk averse as to volatility, but I’m not in this 
league. This is really perfect safety against volatility, or almost perfect, and I would say we 
maybe ought to think more about trying a little harder to get to what we said, which is the 
smallest balance sheet consistent with “efficient and effective.” The other thing is, for me, it 
makes the idea of a repo facility that much more interesting and so also to be considered. This is 
not something for a decision today but for discussion down the road. 
Further comments and questions? [No response] If not, let’s break for lunch. We’ll 
come back at 1:00. 
[Lunch recess] 
CHAIR POWELL. Welcome back, everyone. I need a vote to ratify the domestic open 
market operations conducted since the January meeting. Do I have a motion to approve? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 

CHAI
R POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. Let’s get started again with our 
review and discussion of the economic and financial situation. Stacey Tevlin, Joe Gruber, and 
Marcel Priebsch will be providing the briefings. Stacey, over to you. 
MS. TEVLIN.3 Thanks. My materials are in the packet titled “Material for 
Briefing on the U.S. Outlook.” Panel 1 of your first exhibit compares the January and 
March Tealbook projections for quarterly GDP growth. As you can see, we made an 
appreciable downward revision to our current-quarter GDP forecast. This revision 
was based on the incoming data on spending and production. 
The evolution of how we arrived at this current-quarter figure is traced out in 
panel 2. As shown by the black line, we have marked down our Q1 projection several 
times, with most of the downward revision to our judgmental forecast occurring in 
mid-February, when we received the December retail sales data. To provide a check 
on our judgment, the red line plots the evolution of the first-quarter nowcast from the 
Board staff’s preferred dynamic factor model. These two different ways of filtering 
the data are generally painting the same picture of downward revisions. 
When we received the advance estimate for December retail sales, the sheer size 
of the reported decline led us to suspect that sales growth might be revised higher in 
last week’s retail sales release. Unfortunately, that suspicion turned out to be wrong. 
As the black line in panel 3 indicates, sales are still reported to have fallen sharply in 
December. However, both the Census data and the preliminary data on credit and 
debit card transactions that we get from First Data, the red line, point to a partial 
rebound in January. The most recent, and highly preliminary, information received 
from First Data suggests that sales may have weakened again last month; we have 
taken these and other available indicators of consumer purchases onboard in updating 
our near-term forecast, which now implies essentially no net change in retail spending 
over the three months ending in February and a pace of overall first-quarter real PCE 
growth that is less than 1 percent at an annual rate. 
Last week’s news on retail sales, in combination with other data we received since 
the Tealbook projection closed, led to small downward revisions to our growth 
projection and, as shown back in panel 2 by the final black circle, our first-quarter 
forecast of real GDP growth now stands just under 1 percent. Although we had been 
anticipating that real output growth would step down from last year’s pace, we think 
that the weak reading we’ve penciled in for the first quarter overstates the degree to 
which aggregate demand is slowing, and, as you can see back in panel 1, we are 
expecting a bounceback in the second quarter. Only a fraction of this decline and 
rebound in the growth rate is due to the government shutdown. 
The bars in panel 4 smooth things out some by reporting half-year figures. Two 
things are apparent in this panel. First, the contribution from inventory investment, 
3 The materials used by Ms. Tevlin are appended to this transcript (appendix 3). 

t
he gold portions of the bars, boosted real GDP growth considerably in the second 
half of last year. We expect firms to slow their pace of inventory accumulation over 
the coming year to bring it back in line with spending, leading to a drag on production 
this year. Second, the contribution to GDP growth made by private domestic final 
purchases (PDFP), the blue portions, is expected to step down noticeably in the first 
half of this year. But it then returns to an above 2 percent pace, reflecting our view 
that the first-quarter weakness in growth is transitory. 
Our assessment that the lower growth rate in PDFP is unlikely to persist is 
consistent with the high level of consumer sentiment, the recovery in financial market 
conditions, and, importantly, the mostly favorable news from the labor market, which 
includes both the January and February employment reports and a number of wage 
indicators. These data are summarized in the next page of exhibits. 
The data from the establishment survey were mixed. As shown by the red line in 
panel 5, BLS’s estimate of private payroll gains slowed to 25,000 in February from 
308,000 in January. Last month’s decline in private payroll growth was also evident 
in our translation of the firm-level data collected by the payroll processor ADP—the 
black line. We think that only part of the swing in job growth from January to 
February was attributable to the effect of weather. However, even with last month’s 
weak read, BLS payroll gains averaged a still-respectable 185,000 jobs per month 
over the three months ending in February. We have therefore taken only a modest 
signal from the incoming employment data and now expect overall payroll growth to 
average 165,000 jobs per month over the next four months—about 25,000 less than 
our previous projection, but still higher than the pace we judge to be consistent with 
an unchanged level of labor utilization. 
Data from the household survey remained strong. The unemployment rate, the 
black line in panel 6, came down, on net, over the past two months, and the labor 
force participation rate, which is not shown here, moved up again. Overall, the 
employment-to-population ratio was about in line with our expectation. 
Panel 6 also plots unemployment rates for various racial and ethnic groups. As 
shown by the blue line, the jobless rate for blacks or African Americans has crept 
higher recently. This series tends to be noisy, and the uptick has been accompanied 
by a noticeable increase in this group’s labor force participation rate, so it may be 
benign. Still, this development is one that we will be monitoring closely in coming 
months. 
In our forecast, the unemployment rate, the black line in panel 7, declines to 
3.6 percent by the end of this year and remains at that level next year before edging 
back up to 3.7 percent in 2021. This fairly flat contour reflects the fact that, on 
average, output rises at a pace close to our estimate of potential output growth over 
the next three years. This path for the unemployment rate is a tenth higher than what 
we wrote down in the January Tealbook, reflecting a narrower output gap. Of course, 
the gray shaded area indicates that the uncertainty associated with our medium-term 
forecast is large. In fact, projections of the FRB/US and EDO models, which we 

hi
ghlighted in a box in the Tealbook this time, are calling for unemployment rates 
near the upper edge of that 70 percent confidence interval. 
Panel 8 shows four of the various measures of labor compensation that we follow. 
In general, wage growth is up from a year ago. The most timely indicator, average 
hourly earnings, the red line, rose 3.4 percent in the 12 months through February, up 
from 2.6 percent in the preceding year. 
I will now turn to inflation on the next page. Last week, after the March Tealbook 
was closed, we folded in the CPI and PPI for February, which came in lower than we 
had expected. Based on our translation of these data, we now estimate that the 
12-month change in core PCE prices, the red line in panel 9, edged down from 
1.9 percent in January to 1.8 percent in February. Looking at the detailed price data 
led us to offset only a portion of the downward surprise, and we have essentially 
allowed the downward inflation revision to carry forward. Total PCE prices, the 
black line, rose 1.4 percent through February, held down by subdued rates of food 
price inflation and a decline in consumer energy prices. Total inflation was also 
revised down last week, but a little less than the core rate. 
Our medium-term inflation outlook is shown in panel 10, which plots the four-
quarter change in total PCE prices, the black line, and core prices, the red line. We 
now think that core inflation will be 1.9 percent this year and then edge up to 
2 percent next year. Total PCE price inflation is expected to run a touch below core, 
reflecting our projected path of declining consumer energy prices. 
The latest news on consumers’ inflation expectations are shown in panel 11. On 
Friday, we received the Michigan survey measure of median inflation expectations 
over the next 5 to 10 years. After dipping to 2.3 percent in February, this measure 
moved back up in early March to 2.5 percent and now stands near the middle of its 
range in recent years. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York survey of expectations 
also dipped in February, but this measure has fluctuated in a wider range than the 
Michigan survey has. 
Before I hand off to Joe, I want to update you on a change that we are likely to 
make in the next Tealbook. As you know, the federal funds path that underlies the 
staff projection has, for a while now, been well above the median SEP federal funds 
rate path and, really, even the path of the most “hawkish” individual participant. 
And, as Marcel will describe shortly, that wedge remains this round. Part of this 
difference is because we see greater momentum or tailwinds in the economy than 
most participants do. But part of it is that our current rule—the intercept-adjusted 
inertial version of the Taylor (1999) rule—is not capturing the decisions of the 
Committee particularly well right now. Therefore, in the April forecast round, we 
plan to change our assumed rule to something we hope will be closer to your implicit 
policy rate reaction function and will be more useful to you. We won’t pretend to 
know the exact framework—or 17 different frameworks—that you are using to set 
policy [laughter] but will instead aim to come up with a simple rule that roughly 
mimics your recent and reported intended behavior. The Monetary Policy Strategies 

s
ection of the Tealbook this time illustrated one rule that appears roughly consistent 
with the median of your December SEP—a rule that has asymmetric weights on the 
output gap. We will consider this rule, and others as well, when we choose. In 
addition, we will plan to regularly reevaluate our rule—not every round, which would 
be too disruptive, but perhaps once a year. I’ll turn it over to Joe. 
MR. GRUBER.
4 Thanks, Stacey. I’ll be referring to the handout titled “Material 
for Briefing on the International Outlook.” Economic data have largely, though not 
uniformly, surprised on the downside over the intermeeting period, leading us to 
revise down our foreign outlook once again. Foreign real growth at the end of last 
year is estimated to have been a disappointing 1.7 percent, a pace we expect to persist 
through the current quarter. We expect growth to pick back up toward our 
2½ percent estimate of potential, in part as some temporary headwinds fade but also 
supported by accommodative policy. Certainly, this pickup is far from assured, and 
we remain attuned to a number of notable downside risks, particularly in China and 
Europe. 
On the next page, one salient aspect of the current soft patch has been the 
downturn in trade and manufacturing. Shown on the left in red, the new export orders 
component of the global manufacturing PMI has moved into contractionary territory, 
and world IP growth, in black, has slowed sharply, even as other sectors, including 
services, shown on the right, have held up better. 
As shown on your next slide, the falloff in trade has been particularly apparent in 
China, with imports and exports, the red and black lines on the left, respectively, 
declining at the end of last year. The Chinese authorities’ deleveraging campaign 
likely slowed growth not only in China, but also throughout Asia, contributing to the 
decline in both China’s imports and exports, though trade tensions with the United 
States also likely played a role. As authorities recalibrate in response to last year’s 
slowdown, our forecast, shown on the right, is for real growth to bounce back up this 
year, supported by increased stimulus, including a bevy of tax cuts and credit-easing 
measures. Already we have seen some rebound in aggregate credit, as discussed 
earlier by Simon, as well as stronger data last week, with industrial production, 
bottom left, recovering and retail sales, bottom right, moving up further. 
On the next page, the euro area has been another source of concern. In the upper 
left, euro-area data disappointed through the second half of last year, notwithstanding 
some more positive releases of late, including last week’s IP and retail sales. As 
shown on the bottom, many forecasters, including ourselves, have significantly 
marked down the outlook for 2019 and 2020 relative to just a few months ago, as it 
has become apparent that the downshift in growth last year probably owed a little less 
to temporary headwinds than we had hoped. Though we see growth in the euro area 
as having bottomed out and expect a slow climb, model-estimated recession 
4 The materials used by Mr. Gruber are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). 

pr
obabilities have reached a worrying 70 percent, so we are certainly not out of the 
woods. 
Your next slide provides some context for the increase in recession probability by 
unpacking the three main macroeconomic inputs into the model and comparing their 
behavior with that in the three most recent euro-area recessions. As you can see, the 
path of new export orders over the 24 months leading into January, the black line, has 
generally tracked that of other euro-area recessions. The model sees this pattern and 
wants a recession. However, retail sales, bottom left, have continued to grow, less 
consistent with the experience in previous recessions, even as IP has remained 
relatively flat, on average, bottom right, although the most recent reading for January 
was positive. 
On the next page, the weaker outlook has led the ECB to extend its guidance for 
when it will begin tightening policy rates to the beginning of next year, although, as 
Simon indicated earlier, markets had already been assuming that tightening would not 
start until later in 2020, a view we share as well. As shown in the middle panel, with 
core inflation still below or just at target, advanced-economy central banks are under 
little pressure to hike rates, and communications have generally taken a dovish turn, 
with a number signaling an increased willingness to be patient. Accordingly, we have 
pushed back the expected policy rate paths for all major advanced foreign economy 
(AFE) central banks. In view of this downshift in policy expectations, both in the 
United States and abroad, the dollar, shown on the right, has been about flat since the 
start of the year. We still expect a moderate appreciation, premised on the staff 
outlook of a tighter path of U.S. policy than market expectations. 
On the next page, although our baseline outlook is for real GDP growth in China 
and the euro area to stabilize, and for aggregate foreign growth to strengthen, some 
familiar, though still notable, risks persist. Last week, the U.K. Parliament held a 
number of Brexit-related votes, with the end result that the United Kingdom will ask 
for an extension to its March 29 deadline. The length of the extension is likely to be 
contingent on yet another Parliamentary vote on some form of Prime Minister May’s 
twice-rejected exit plan. If the plan passes, the extension would likely be short, 
possibly only through June 30; however, if the plan does not pass, the extension could 
be much longer, possibly through 2020, as the process of planning exit would 
basically start over. Any extension still needs the approval of EU leaders. All told, 
Brexit-related uncertainty is likely to be with us for some time, though the risk of an 
imminent no-deal Brexit has diminished somewhat. 
Trade policy is another perennial risk area in which we have seen some 
movement. In late February, the Administration delayed the next round of tariffs on 
imports from China, citing substantial progress on a bilateral agreement. However, 
more recently, progress has slowed somewhat, and a signing ceremony between 
Presidents Trump and Xi originally anticipated by the end of the month remains 
unscheduled. 

M
arkets have been highly reactive to news on trade policy, most recently 
positively, introducing some risk into our outlook. First, a renewed escalation in 
trade tensions, and further tariffs, could push markets down. Second, it could be that 
markets have overestimated the contribution of trade tensions to the slowing of global 
growth, so that a negotiated removal of tariffs could provide less of a boost than 
markets might be anticipating. For the reminder of my remarks, I’ll examine the 
evidence on whether tariffs, particularly those aimed at China, are affecting activity in 
the United States. 
Your next exhibit starts with U.S. exports. Exports to China, the red line on the 
left, fell off sharply in 2018. Of course, this falloff doesn’t necessarily translate into 
weaker overall exports, as many of the United States’ exports to China are 
commodities for which shifting to alternative markets could be relatively costless. 
For example, as shown in the first two columns on the right, U.S. crude oil exports to 
China have fallen to almost zero in the fourth quarter, but overall exports of crude set 
a new record, as other markets quickly filled the gap. The story is different for 
soybeans. Increased exports to other markets have been insufficient to offset the 
decline in China’s previously immense demand. Overall, as shown on the bottom, 
export growth last year fell short of what would be expected, shown by the black dot, 
given the pace of foreign growth, the green bars, and the effects of movements in the 
exchange rate, the blue bars, suggesting a negative effect from the tariffs, some of 
which we expect to carry over into our forecast for exports this year. 
As shown in your next slide, there is less evidence that tariffs have affected U.S. 
imports, at least at the aggregate level. As shown in the upper left, import growth in 
2018 was almost exactly in line with our expectations given the strength of U.S. 
growth and movements in the dollar. However, imports from China, the red line in 
the right panel, were relatively weak, suggesting a shift toward nontariffed source 
countries. Some evidence to this effect is presented in the table at the bottom. The 
table compares the growth of imports across four buckets of goods: those that have 
not seen tariff hikes, column 1, as well as those that have been affected by each of the 
three rounds of China tariffs implemented so far. Looking at the second and third 
columns, it appears that the 25 percent tariff hikes enacted over the summer have 
depressed imports from China, line 2, while the 10 percent tariff announced in 
September, the fourth column, may have actually boosted imports at the end of last 
year, possibly in an attempt to front-run even further tariff hikes proposed for these 
particular goods. Comparing lines 2 and 3, there is some evidence that the tariffs 
have shifted imports toward Mexico from China, mitigating, to some degree, the 
effect of the tariffs on overall U.S. imports. 
Your last slide looks for tariff effects on prices and activity. There is growing 
evidence, from both tariff data and the careful study of import prices paid at the dock, 
that foreign producers are not cutting their prices to offset the effects of the tariffs—
rather, U.S. importers are paying the bulk of the tariffs and boosting consumer prices 
in some cases, including for household appliances, as shown in the upper left. 
However, the overall effect on aggregate inflation appears to have remained small. 
Employment growth across industries, on the y-axis in the upper right, shows no 

c
orrelation with industry exposure to tariffs, the x-axis. There is a weak negative 
relationship between the growth of capital investment and exposure to trade with 
China, both for exports and imported intermediates; however, the overall direct 
evidence that the tariffs, or trade policy uncertainty, has meaningfully held down 
aggregate U.S. economic activity remains scant, or at least the effects have not shown 
up yet. This could imply that a rollback of the tariffs might not have much direct 
effect on aggregate activity and prices, though it could boost business sentiment. I’ll 
now turn it over to Marcel. 
MR. PRIEBSCH.
5 Thanks, Joe. A very good afternoon to all of you. My name 
is Marcel Priebsch, and I’m a Board economist in the Division of Monetary Affairs. 
The exhibits for this briefing are labeled “Material for Briefing on the Summary of 
Economic Projections.” And going third, so soon after lunch, I should point out that 
I’m under strict instructions to get through this material before one of you dozes off. 
[Laughter] So I will put the “brief” back in “briefing” and hit the ground running 
with a few headline results. 
All of you lowered your real GDP growth projections in 2019. Compared with 
your December projections, the median of your assessments for the appropriate level 
of the federal funds rate is now 50 basis points lower throughout the projection 
horizon. Overall, your assessments of the uncertainty and risks surrounding your 
projections are little changed. 
Regarding exhibit 1, a substantial majority of you have revised down your 
projections for real GDP growth this year 0.3 or 0.4 percentage points. Most of you 
mentioned a recent patch of weaker data on domestic economic activity, and some of 
you pointed to a worsening global growth outlook, as factors behind your downward 
revisions. Most of you continue to expect real GDP growth to edge down over the 
projection horizon, and almost all of you see growth in 2021 at or below its longer-
run rate. As shown in the second panel, the median of your projections for the 
unemployment rate over the projection horizon has shifted up a bit, but most of you 
continue to project that the unemployment rate will remain below your individual 
estimates of its longer-run level throughout the projection horizon. As you can see in 
the bottom panels, the medians of your projections for headline inflation have come 
down a touch; that said, almost all of you project headline and core inflation between 
1.8 and 2.2 percent throughout the projection period. 
Exhibit 2 reports your assessments of the appropriate path of the federal funds 
rate. A majority of you now see, at most, one 25 basis point rate increase between 
now and the end of 2021. Most of you do not project any rate hike this year; in 
December, only a couple of you projected that the federal funds rate would be 
unchanged from its current level at the end of 2019. Muted inflationary pressures and 
risk-management considerations were both cited as factors contributing to the 
downward revisions in your assessments. The medians of your assessments of the 
5 The materials used by Mr. Priebsch are appended to this transcript (appendix 5). 

a
ppropriate level of the federal funds rate in 2020 and 2021 are now below the 
median of your assessments of its longer-run level. 
The red diamonds in exhibit 2 show the median prescription for the federal funds 
rate based on the Taylor (1999) rule, taking as inputs your individual projections for 
inflation, the unemployment gap, and the longer-run federal funds rate. As in the 
past, the rates prescribed by this rule are notably higher than the path of the federal 
funds rate you consider appropriate. This difference suggests that, with inflation 
projected to remain near your objective, you do not see a need for responding to the 
projected unemployment gaps as aggressively as the Taylor rule calls for. 
The golden triangles in the exhibit show the median prescription from an 
asymmetric version of the Taylor rule. Under such a rule, when unemployment is 
above its longer-run value, policymakers will respond to inflation and the 
unemployment gap according to the Taylor (1999) rule; when unemployment is 
below its longer-run value, policymakers will respond only to inflation and not to the 
unemployment gap. This rule is intended to describe policymakers who are willing to 
tolerate unemployment below its longer-run value as long as it is not accompanied by 
high inflation. The median rate prescriptions from the asymmetric rule are much 
lower than those of the symmetric rule and are currently only slightly above the 
medians of your rate projections. However, the revisions of the symmetric rule’s 
prescriptions since December—that is, by how much the red diamonds have shifted 
down—are close to the 50 basis point decline in the median of your rate projections; 
the prescriptions of the asymmetric rule have declined by much less. This reflects the 
asymmetric rule’s insensitivity to a narrower unemployment gap as long as 
unemployment remains below its longer-run value. 
Exhibit 3 presents your judgments about the uncertainty and risks surrounding 
your projections. As shown in the left panels, most of you continue to view the 
uncertainty attached to your projections as broadly similar to the average over the 
past 20 years. As illustrated in the right panels, most of you generally judge the risks 
to the outlook as broadly balanced. Two more of you now see the risks to inflation 
weighted to the downside; none of you see them weighted to the upside. In your 
narratives, trade tensions as well as developments abroad were mentioned as sources 
of uncertainty or downside risk to the growth outlook. The effect of trade restrictions 
was cited as an upside risk to the inflation outlook, while the potential for a stronger 
dollar and weaker domestic demand to put downward pressure on inflation were 
viewed as downside risks. A number of you mentioned that your risks assessments 
remained roughly balanced in part as a result of your revisions to the appropriate 
policy rate path. I will end my briefing here, and we’ll be happy to take any 
questions you might have. 
CHAIR POWELL. Questions for any of the briefers? President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. I want to go back to page 4 in the international presentation. It has the 
estimated probability of recession in the euro area within 12 months at 70 percent—the February 

num
ber. I just wanted to be clear—what’s the interpretation of this? I thought you downplayed 
it after you showed this part. 
MR. GRUBER. The inputs into this model are the three macro variables in the next 
exhibit—so that’s the new orders component of purchasing manager’s index (PMI), IP, and retail 
sales. And then there are also some financial stress indicators that go into the model. Basically 
that’s what’s informing the 70 percent probability. 
As to the downplaying—a lot of this upward movement in recession probability is 
coming from the new export orders of the PMI, which is concerning, right? But I would just 
point out that there are some other factors that would be less indicative of a recession right now. 
If Europe was going into recession, it would be slightly different than recessions we’ve seen 
there in the past in that retail sales growth continues to be strong, and that’s just not what we’ve 
seen in previous instances. So there still seems to remain some momentum behind domestic 
demand in Europe. It would make this a little different if we were actually going into recession 
at this point. That was the main point of this. 
MR. BULLARD. I guess what we’re saying is, Italy technically is in recession. 
MR. GRUBER. That’s right. 
MR. BULLARD. And Germany is right on the borderline. 
MR. GRUBER. Their Expert Economics Council revised down the forecast for GDP 
growth for Germany for this year to 0.8 percent today, so I think that some of the German data 
have been weak, even within the euro area. But we’re not forecasting recession. Generally, 
outside forecasters aren’t forecasting recession at this point. Given the very low unemployment 
there and still relatively strong wage growth, it would be kind of an odd time to go into 
recession. 

M
R. BULLARD. And then, if I skip ahead to page 6, it says we’ve got the dollar 
appreciating about 5 percent over the forecast horizon. The story there in the past has been that 
we were going to surprise markets with our “hawkishness.” I guess, given the dots presentation, 
it doesn’t look like it’s going to happen. So do you still want the 5 percent appreciation? 
MR. GRUBER. I think also, in connection with Stacey’s discussion about possibly 
revisiting this rule, this is one of the parts that we are going to see change if we were to change 
the staff policy rate path. This is an annual rate of appreciation of, like you say, about 1.8 
percent in the dollar. If we were to lower the staff forecast so it’s closer to the market 
expectation, that would flatten out the dollar, right? This path of the dollar is currently taking 
about 15 basis points off growth in each year of the forecast. So if we were to flatten it out, it 
would raise growth around 10 to 15 basis points. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? [No response] If not, then let’s go ahead with 
our economic go-round, beginning with Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. With the Q4 data finally in, we now know 
that the U.S. economy expanded at a pace of 3.1 percent in 2018 and delivered upside surprises 
in both productivity and labor force participation. I’m in the relatively optimistic camp that sees 
trend growth for the U.S. economy at 2.2 percent and in December projected that 2019 growth 
would slow but to a pace above trend of 2.3 percent. 
Alas, most of the data for the U.S. economy since our December meeting have surprised 
on the downside, as Stacey documented, and as the various surprise indexes out there, 
Bloomberg and Citi, will confirm. And I agree with the Tealbook and private forecasters that 
this necessitates a downward revision to my 2019 projection. I penciled in an even 2.0 percent 

f
or 2019 real GDP growth in my March SEP but, truth be told, after the February employment 
report and some other numbers, that fell to 1.95, but I did round it up to 2 in my submission. 
Although this is for tomorrow’s policy go-round, I note that I and the Tealbook and 
private forecasters are marking down 2019 real growth estimates to at or below trend, 
notwithstanding bond yields that are lower, credit spreads that are tighter, and stock prices that 
are higher than in December. Lower bond yields, I think, reflect a sharp slowdown in 2019 
global growth that we have heard about, as well as some repricing of our policy rate path, and 
that repricing has been supportive of equities and credit spreads. As to the yield curve, it is very 
flat, not yet inverted between the three-month point and the 10-year point, and breakeven 
inflation has picked up year-to-date, albeit from depressed levels. 
All of this is consistent, I think, with the markets believing for now that the Fed wants—
and is capable of executing—a soft landing. I will venture to say that if we were still 
communicating, or being seen to communicate, a plan to hike rates twice this year, financial 
conditions would be much less supportive of growth, and we’d be marking down our projections 
more than we are today. But, of course, it is not our mandate to engineer a soft landing if the 
cost is to sustain a material overshoot of PCE inflation and inflation expectations above our 
target. But today, at least to me, there’s simply no evidence of this risk in the wage data, in 
actual inflation, or in inflation expectations, and I’m projecting core PCE inflation of 1.8 percent 
for 2019. And I note the 1.8 percent core PCE inflation is equal to the staff’s estimate of 
underlying inflation. We did see, in box 10 in the presentation, a projection of core PCE 
inflation getting to 2 percent, but I understand that that’s not technically driven entirely by the 
model itself. 

A
s for inflation expectations, I do know that the Michigan survey has been fluctuating 
narrowly, and it is true that it’s stable, but it’s now in the lowest range ever recorded in the 
history of that survey, and the staff estimates of expected inflation drawn from the TIPS curve 
are also consistent with underlying PCE inflation below 2 percent. Now, as I say in my public 
remarks, taken together, the evidence suggests to me that measures of expected inflation are at 
the very low end of a range that I myself consider to be consistent with price stability, at least in 
our 2 percent objective. 
Talking about wage inflation, the 3.4 percent increase in average hourly earnings was a 
welcome, high “print” for this cycle. But it’s entirely consistent with underlying estimates of 
trend productivity growth and underlying inflation and, as of now, provides no indication of cost-
push pressures. Indeed, my personal estimate of u* remains at 4.1 percent, but after reading 
some recent research—including the recent Brookings Papers article by President Daly, Bill 
Wascher, and co-authors—I may have to revise down my estimate of u* at the June SEP to 
4 percent. 
I’m projecting a gradual rise in the unemployment rate over the next two years, as I do 
see growth falling somewhat below my estimate of trend. And, of course, another factor relevant 
to the unemployment projection is labor force participation (LFP). I think one thing that was 
striking about last year is that in the nine months from May 2018 through February of this year, 
we saw very strong gains in employment but essentially no change in the unemployment rate, 
because it was met with an increase in participation. Now I’ll acknowledge that LFP gains will 
eventually cease, because the underlying demographic forces ultimately will prevail, but prime-
age participation does remain below earlier peaks, and there may be some room to run in 2019. 

F
inally, Mr. Chair, in terms of risks to the outlook, alas, at least to me, they are skewed 
somewhat to the downside. And I, for one, am pleased that we managed in January to get the 
“balance of risk” language out of our statement. I think that may become helpful in the future. 
Global growth is slowing, particularly in China and Europe. John Williams and I were in 
Basel last week, and I think it’s fair to say that the mood among our colleagues in China, Japan, 
and Europe ranges from anxious, to concerned, to very concerned. Global policy uncertainty 
remains elevated. Financial conditions have fluctuated, of course, and that makes it difficult to 
extract signal from noise. In particular, the bond market has seemed to forget that it has a lot of 
Treasury supply to absorb in this year and future years, and at some point there may be a higher 
term premium required to do so. 
Of course, there are upside risks to the outlook as well, but to me they seem to be 
concentrated more on the supply side of the economy than on the demand side. If this is so, then 
upside surprises to real growth could be paired with downside surprises to core inflation. This 
suggests to me that, in thinking about economic scenarios, we would be well served to resist the 
temptation to see the world in binary terms with only two possible future outcomes: a path with 
strong above-trend growth and rising inflation or a path with slowing growth and falling 
inflation. There is a third scenario, which, to me, is very plausible: roughly trend growth with 
stable inflation. And I’ll discuss the implications of all this tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We ended the 2018 year with the mood being bad 
but the data being good, and the opposite is true today. Moods are picking up, but the data have 
been soft, retail sales and employment being the best examples. With less monetary and fiscal 
stimulus at play, it’s not surprising that the economy is slowing. The question is, are the data 

s
ignaling more slowing than we expected? My answer is “yes,” even discounting, to some 
extent, the readings on Q1 growth from retail sales and employment and not taking as much 
signal from that data as they would seem to want to give. 
Relative to my December SEP submission, I’ve marked down real GDP growth notably 
for 2019. I now expect the economy to slow to trend this year—which was different than I had 
previously thought—and remain there for the next several years. With real GDP growth close to 
growth in potential, I expect the unemployment rate to hold steady at about 3¾ percent for the 
next couple of years. And then, of course, that would spill over into an expectation about 
inflation, I hope getting up to 2 percent but not rising much above that, or at all above that, in 
2019 or 2020. I’m going to discuss downside risk to inflation at the end. Importantly, it’s worth 
noting that I expect this outlook with a funds rate path of no change this year—which is quite a 
bit different than I had assumed in December. 
As the economy slows to trend, it’s a good time to reexamine what g*—our trend growth—is. In 
San Francisco, we do this regularly, but we dug into it a lot this time by considering a suite of 
different models designed to capture trends in two components of potential growth: total hours 
growth—total hours in the economy—and growth in output per hour. If I start with total hours 
growth: Conditional on trends in labor force participation and incorporating some of the lift 
we’ve seen of late in 2018 and in hours worked per worker, the models project that total 
economy hours will increase at about ½ percent per year in the longer run over the next 5 to 10 
years. This is quite consistent with forecasts produced by the Congressional Budget Office and 
private forecasters. Estimating trend productivity growth is harder. There’s much more 
uncertainty. So we use a bottom-up approach using a sectoral methodology developed by John 
Fernald. This methodology tries to account for innovation, capital deepening, and labor quality, 

a
nd also allows for shifts between high-productivity states and low-productivity states—a high-
productivity state example being the late 1990s. 
Projections of this model put trend productivity growth for the next 5 to 10 years at about 
1.2 percent per year. That is faster than we’ve seen since 2010 and only a bit faster than in the 
past 15 years. It is a slower productivity growth regime than in the 1990s or even in the ’50s and 
some part of the ’60s, but it’s, on average, consistent with what we’ve seen in the other periods. 
If you put these two projections together, ½ percent total hours’ growth and 1.2 percent 
productivity growth, that gives you a g* estimate of 1.7 percent per year. Of course, as many of 
you know—and I’m at the low end of the real GDP growth projections in the SEP—there’s 
substantial uncertainty around this estimate. I thought it would be useful to go through where 
there are some risks. 
One place there’s risk is with respect to total hours’ growth. It will be hard, as Governor 
Clarida just mentioned, to offset the effects of the demographic shift—the baby boomers retiring. 
But it is also true in work that I’ve done with Nicolas Petrosky-Nadeau, and, as Chair Powell 
mentioned in the 60 Minutes interview, that labor force participation of prime-age workers in the 
United States is far below our industrialized nation partners or competitors. Nicolas and I show 
that policies to increase participation among this group would include family-friendly work 
policies, skills training, redevelopment, and even treatment for opioid addiction. If you just think 
of an example, because it’s hard to quantify what each of those would do, but if you just said, 
“What if we had the participation rates of prime-age workers in Canada? How much would that 
add to our labor force growth?” It would be 0.3 of a percentage point. So that’s a sizable move. 
It moves you from 1.7 percent growth to 2 percent, which in a slow-growth economy is 
nontrivial. 

Fo
r productivity growth, it’s, of course, always possible that we can have the next 
technological revolution, and in the West Coast we are all hoping for that. But in the absence of 
that, it’s a point of fact that productivity growth can both surprise us on the upside but also 
surprise us on the downside. So we just did a simple calculation in what I would call the low-
productivity growth states and said, “What’s the standard deviation?” And it’s about 0.35. So 
that means, given an estimate of 1.2 percent productivity growth, we could be north of 1.5 
percent if we get a good draw, and we could be south of 1 percent if we get a bad draw. I think 
it’s useful to keep watching the data and have those risks in mind as we move forward. Right 
now, I’m going to stick with 1.7 percent trend real GDP growth and, in that case, what we have 
is an economy in which we have a really good labor market, growth at its trend rate, and inflation 
that’s relatively muted. 
I want to finish by turning to this “inflation relatively muted.” So my projections are 
already for just getting to 2 percent, but I think there are downside risks to that. One drag is 
going to come from, as I mentioned last time, prices in acyclical sectors—sectors that don’t 
really respond to the strength of the economy. A prime example of this is health-care services 
price inflation, which is heavily influenced by legislation, such as cuts to the public health 
insurance programs—so Medicaid or Medicare. Now, although some of these cuts have recently 
expired, many are still in place, and they’re likely to keep health-care price inflation at 
historically low levels. 
A second downside risk, and one that I’m paying particular attention to, is inflation 
expectations. As many have mentioned around the table, market-based measures of inflation 
compensation are still lower than last summer, and that is a little worrisome. Now, the Board 
staff last time did look into this model to see what we’re really getting. Is that term premium, or 

ris
k premium, or is it inflation expectations? The San Francisco Fed team did the same thing, 
looking at the New York Fed models, the Board’s models, and the models we keep in San 
Francisco. They all agree that most of the developments are in risk and liquidity premiums, not 
inflation expectations. So that is some comfort. But I think it’s important to also worry that, 
after seven years of not getting sustainably to 2 percent inflation, and survey-based expectations 
are drifting down a little bit; Vice Chair Williams had a nice table at the Monetary Policy Forum 
that showed that consistently running below 2 percent is a problem. It could eventually unanchor 
expectations, even if just a little bit. So it’s important to think about this downward drift and 
remain vigilant on that front. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Incoming data from the first quarter have 
caused me to lower my forecast of first-quarter real GDP growth significantly. And, in common 
with the Tealbook, I now expect the number to be closer to 1 percent growth for this quarter. It 
is noteworthy that, as of the end of January, the Tealbook forecast for the quarter was 2.3 
percent. An important part of the overall slowdown is a slowdown in household spending. A 
critical question at this juncture is whether this weakness is likely to persist or whether the 
economy will return to growth, as forecast in the Tealbook, at a rate a percentage point slower 
than last year but still somewhat above the potential rate. 
There are credible arguments for this being a temporary decline, rather than a trend. Both 
the volatility and the decline in stock markets here and abroad have largely been reversed. U.S. 
and Chinese equity prices have recovered smartly, with Chinese markets particularly strong in 
response to renewed confidence in a trade agreement and significant policy actions by the 
Chinese government to provide stimulus. Long-term Treasury yields have remained low. As a 

r
esult, the improvement in stock prices and the lower costs on mortgage rates could spur stronger 
household spending over the rest of this year. 
But the arguments for more persistent low growth also have some weight. Weakness 
might persist because some of the original sources of uncertainty remain elevated. My staff has 
done work on uncertainty, following the work of Baker, Bloom, and Davis, but using a 
somewhat broader set of words to capture worries and doubts about the sustainability of the 
current expansion. The work highlights the fact that this broader measure of uncertainty was 
unusually high at the end of last year, which may have more residual effects on consumer 
behavior. In terms of the situation in China, to date financial markets have recovered more 
significantly than the underlying economy, and at least some high-frequency indicators in 
Europe would suggest more persistence to the recent slowdown in their economic activity. 
Still, the fundamentals for the U.S. economy remain fairly robust. Hence, the forecast I 
have submitted is more consistent with that of the Tealbook, which judges that the problems in 
the first quarter will not persist. Although the fundamental drivers of the U.S. expansion remain 
positive for the remainder of the year, I still have some concerns about the near term, and the 
February employment report was not reassuring. Furthermore, the ability of U.S. and foreign 
policymakers to respond if the economy does weaken is limited. The federal funds rate stands at 
2.4 percent, and with both policy and long-term government bond rates in Europe and Japan near 
zero or negative, our ability to offset unexpected economic strength is much greater than our 
ability to offset unexpected economic weakness. One of the challenges of the low equilibrium 
interest rate is that it forces us to be more responsive to periods of global weakness, because the 
amount by which we can reduce rates is so limited. 

T
hus, a risk-management approach to the current situation, which is a pause in monetary 
policy actions, makes sense to me and is fully consistent with the “pivot” in our communication. 
The pivot has been at least partly responsible for the improvement in financial conditions. I 
would highlight, however, that my forecast expects somewhat more inflationary pressures than 
the Tealbook. Wages have continued to rise, and I view the increase in excess of the sum of 
inflation and productivity as being driven more by tight labor markets than significantly higher 
productivity. While business leaders I speak with have been concerned about financial markets 
and uncertainty, their biggest concern remains the tight labor markets. Wages and salaries have 
been rising faster in New England than the nation, and business contacts relate that to unusually 
tight labor markets in the region. If these trends continue, there may be a limit to how long 
monetary policy should pause, a topic that I will discuss tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Regarding the forecast, I am in general 
agreement with the staff’s near-term forecast of economic activity and have ratcheted down my 
near-term outlook as well. We already anticipated greater first-quarter weakness in January, so I 
didn’t have to make quite as big an adjustment. Apparently, what our contacts have been telling 
us is now being ratified by the data. 
The Third District’s economy has taken a bit of a pause since we last met. Job growth 
has slowed, and it could be characterized as modest. There are a few pockets in which the labor 
market is, in fact, soft. The unemployment rate in the region has declined to 4 percent and is 
below its pre-recession rate, and respondents expect nominal wages to grow at a 3 percent rate 
over the course of the coming year. 

T
he state-by-state benchmark revisions have added a bit of concern to my overall 
assessment of the labor market. The benchmark revisions have significantly lowered 
employment growth in the region and in 80 percent of the states nationally. Now, although the 
sum of state revisions do not add up to the national revision, it appears that, historically, when 
the state revisions are significantly negative and the negative news is pervasive and persistent, as 
they are now, the economy weakens. So the negative revisions this year as well as last may 
indicate that the labor market is not as strong as it appears. 
Manufacturing in our region rebounded a bit in March with our manufacturing index, 
which will be released Thursday, bouncing back into nonrecessionary territory after turning 
negative in February for the first time since May 2016. Manufacturers, however, remain 
guardedly optimistic with hiring plans and planned capital expenditures remain at healthy levels. 
Nonmanufacturing activities also bounced back into solid expansionary territory. Along similar 
lines to manufacturers, respondents are optimistic, and the region’s consumers have retained a 
good deal of optimism as well, with a marked increase in optimism appearing in the Third 
District’s most recent index. 
On the other hand, residential investment in the region is very weak, with permits flat to 
down over the past two years and house price pressures abating in line with the rest of the nation. 
Regarding inflation expectations, our quarterly survey of firms indicates that they expect home 
prices to rise 2.3 percent over the next 12 months and for overall consumer prices to rise 
2.5 percent over the same period. 
To summarize: The regional economy took a bit of a breather of the intermeeting period. 
The fundamentals remain reasonably healthy. Contacts are also expecting a bit of firming in 
inflation rates. However, the recent labor market revisions are a bit concerning. 

N
ow turning to my own national outlook, I, like the staff, have revised down my 
estimates of real GDP growth and expect output to grow at 2.1 percent this year before gradually 
declining to my long-run projection of 1.9 percent in 2021. With respect to the unemployment 
rate, I see a bottoming out at 3.6 percent this year, then a gradually rise to 3.9 percent by the end 
of the forecast horizon, which is a rate substantially below my long-run value of 4.5 percent. 
Regarding inflation, I anticipate a small and welcome overshoot of our 2 percent target 
this year and next, with inflation reaching 2.1 percent before returning to target. Thus, I 
anticipate trend-like real GDP growth with inflation near target, but I am somewhat more 
uncertain about the trajectory of the real economy than I was at this point last year. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I still see growth at or above trend, with 
industrial production solid and sentiment rebounding. The January retail sales number reassured 
me that December was not a consumer turning point. I will say, the recent retail sales reports are 
hard to square with the strength I hear from our local contacts. The fundamentals supporting 
continued growth in consumer spending remain strong. Labor markets still appear healthy. 
Given the strength of the household employment report and the continuing drumbeat from our 
District about how hard it is to find workers, I’m interpreting the February establishment survey 
as an outlier. I am also encouraged by the recent behavior of productivity and compensation. 
Core inflation looks to be basically at target, and I’d note that the 12-month Dallas trimmed 
mean has been within 5 basis points of 2 percent since June. Our Fifth District manufacturing 
and services surveys bounced back nicely after a couple of weaker months, and contacts tell us 
that neither consumers nor businesses have scaled back. 

T
aking a step back from all of this, I see the past year as having had three stages. It 
began with a sense of euphoria following the tax cut and the omnibus bill, fueled also by 
deregulation and strong international consumer spending. This had the effect of boosting 
investment and nudging up prices. By midyear, the euphoria had faded, but the tone was still 
stable. Tariffs and international weakness increasingly grabbed headlines, and investment 
softened. Firms became less courageous in raising prices. At the end of the year, there came a 
sense of panic in equity markets, which spilled over into sentiment. The government shutdown 
didn’t help, and the sentiment effect must account for some of the weakness in recent data: 
retail, auto sales, and potentially even employment. 
But I do believe confidence has rebounded—not to the levels of a year ago, but more to 
the levels of the second half of the year. Equity markets are back. The uncertainties that 
concerned at least me at our last meeting are, frankly, way down. In particular, I’m hopeful the 
shutdown has chastened political leaders on brinkmanship. Trade deals look like they are on the 
way to being settled. A “hard” Brexit looks less likely. Sentiment indexes have rebounded. My 
business contacts confirm that the consumer is still active and that their firms are maintaining 
investment levels. Expectations are sky-high in our District, especially in Durham, Chapel Hill, 
and Charlottesville. [Laughter] 
However, all that said, I do think some real scarring has occurred. The economy’s upside 
now seems more limited, and, as a consequence, the appetite for aggressive investment, 
aggressive hiring, and courageous pricing is likely to be limited as well. In the past few weeks, I 
have been struck by the degree of concern—almost despair—that I hear about the next election 
and the implications for a stable environment for growth, and if this feeling persists, I worry this 
will also limit the economy’s potential for growth. 

CHAI
R POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our Dallas Fed surveys and contacts with 
companies suggest that economic growth in the 11th District is solid, albeit at a more subdued 
pace than in 2018. Our contacts continue to indicate they are facing challenges in finding people 
to hire. Two-thirds of our surveyed firms report difficulty in hiring workers. These firms expect 
continued wage pressure and are resorting to a range of other benefits, such as educational 
opportunities and career-path opportunities, as well as enhanced wages in order to attract 
workers. Texas continues to benefit from migration, though it adds burdens to the state. This is 
particularly helping workforce growth in cities like Dallas, Houston, and Austin and is helping 
offset, to some degree, the labor force shortages that we’re facing. 
I would note that, in the current session of the Texas legislature, which meets every other 
year, the major debate that’s going on is about increasing funding for education and skills 
training. The governor and lieutenant governor have made this issue a top priority. Texas has 
lagged the nation in terms of math, science, and reading scores, and we’ve noted that the United 
States lags the rest of the world in math, science, and reading—and again, Texas lags the nation. 
This is particularly true of the fastest growing demographic groups in the state, blacks and 
Hispanics. On the bright side, increasingly, state and local leaders are connecting future GDP 
growth with making needed improvements in child literacy, improving secondary education, 
raising teacher’s salaries, improving college readiness, and beefing up skills training. 
Contributing to and framing this debate has been an important priority for the Dallas Fed 
Districtwide, and Vice Chairman Clarida was able to observe some of our efforts firsthand in his 
recent trip to Dallas. 

R
egarding the U.S. economy, our Dallas Fed forecast of real GDP growth in the United 
States for 2019 is now a touch below 2 percent. As has been discussed, risks to this forecast 
include slower-than-expected global growth, potential deterioration in financial conditions—
which certainly have improved since January 1—and a lack of resolution to trade tensions and 
uncertainties. On the positive side, though, we continue to note that household balance sheets 
are strong, and income growth should support solid consumption growth. Homebuilders we 
speak to are seeing some firming in their business, and, potentially, actions by the Fed have 
helped contribute to this. Lastly, we would expect the Dallas trimmed mean inflation rate to 
remain close to target in the near and medium term. 
The last comment I’ll touch on is the issue of growth in corporate debt. We’re closely 
monitoring the amount, growth, and deterioration in credit quality of nonfinancial corporate debt 
in the United States. We recently published an essay on this topic and its implications for 
monetary policy and financial stability. In our work, I’d just highlight that we found most 
notable a dramatic rise in the level of BBB-rated corporate debt, which has tripled from year-end 
2008 to year-end 2018, from approximately $800 billion to over $2.7 trillion. In addition, 
leverage loans doubled over the past 10 years from $0.6 trillion to $1.2 trillion, and high-yield 
debt issuance grew $700 billion to $1.1 billion. It is estimated that a substantial portion of this 
growth in nonfinancial corporate debt was used to fund share buybacks, dividends, and merger 
activities, and this trend has also been accompanied by more relaxed loan and bond covenants. 
 All in all, I don’t see this as a systemic issue: Although borrowers in the United States 
are much more leveraged, or more leveraged, lenders do not appear to be dramatically more 
leveraged, according to our analysis. We do think, though, this is more indicative of a 
deterioration in credit quality in the United States, which means in a downturn, there’s a risk for 

mo
re rapid deterioration in financial conditions, which could in turn amplify a slowing in the 
U.S. economy. I would comment, though, that if we could just take a snapshot and freeze things 
here, I think these issues are manageable. But I think these issues are likely to get worse. 
I have been an advocate of this pause, and I continue to be, but, realistically, with rates 
this low, we have to recognize that buybacks, M&A, and similar activities are highly accretive—
“accretive” meaning they improve earnings per share. Shareholder activism is exacerbating this 
problem and encouraging this kind of activity. In many cases, companies are dealing with 
slower growth or margin erosion by decreasing their capital allocations to cap-ex and instead 
borrowing to increase their allocations to share buybacks and dividends and, in some cases, 
merger activities. This in the old days would have been referred to as a “harvesting and milking” 
strategy, and we see this more prevalently, I believe, in the United States. 
On the lending side, banks have increasingly found ways to originate and facilitate this 
business without substantial holdings on their balance sheet. It’s very much a fee business. 
Loans are increasingly held in pools backing collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), which are 
segmented into credit tranches and sold to investors. This structure actually was quite resilient in 
the past recession, although credit quality of these loans today is worse, but we’re still optimistic 
that this should be a resilient structure. In addition, there appears to be an increasing amount of 
this lending emanating from business development companies and other direct lenders. This is 
often facilitated with warehouse lines of credit from commercial banks. 
My only comment on this growth in corporate debt is, at a minimum, I think this is a 
topic and a vulnerability worthy of continued focused attention by regulatory agencies in the 
financial stability oversight council (FSOC). I’d recommend that our supervisory and regulatory 
teams should continue to think about whether there are supervisory actions that the Federal 

R
eserve could take that would help mute the growth in these lesser credit categories of corporate 
credit. And I certainly would recommend we continue to be cognizant about this growth in 
corporate debt as we think about changes to stress testing and leverage requirements for the big 
banks. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Eighth District contacts are more 
optimistic than in January. Some businesses are doing quite well, but not in interest rate 
sensitive sectors. Banks have, generally speaking, been less optimistic than business contacts as 
a whole. Agriculture looks weak. Several reported that soybean exports, which are a primary 
export of the Eighth District, are substantially lower than in past years. We just saw a graph of 
that showing fallout from the ongoing trade war. 
I see the national outlook as being clouded by weak first-quarter readings with real GDP 
tracking being quite low at this moment. As we just saw in the staff presentation, nonfarm 
payrolls in February were quite weak. Consumer expenditures were weaker than expected. 
Business investment was a question mark. Unemployment claims have been edging up, I would 
say trending up a little bit, and that has historically been a very good predictor softening labor 
market conditions, but we’ll see. 
Foreign GDP looks weak, as we just saw in the staff presentation. In my opinion, I 
wouldn’t downplay the trade war on that dimension. I think the trade war is causing significant 
angst outside of the United States, much more than it is inside the United States. So I think 
that’s affecting investment outside the United States and affecting real activity through that 
channel. I guess my main comment is that this weak data will take time to assess. My baseline 
case is that a lot of this is noise and will iron out in the second quarter. However, we don’t 

know
, and so what we should do now is just wait and see. I can’t envision us really having good 
information on how this pans out until we get to the July timeframe. And there is no reason why 
we shouldn’t wait and see. I think we’re in good position, if that’s what we do. 
The jobs report in particular—only 20,000 jobs in February. Maybe it’s noise, maybe 
not. I think a good question for this Committee is, “what would we do if we got further weak 
jobs reports in the next couple of months?” I think there would be two ways to interpret that. 
One would be that that was just a natural slowdown for an economy that is slowing down to its 
potential growth rate. We have been predicting slower growth of jobs for years, and if it finally 
materialized, why should we be surprised? But I think a more likely narrative is that it will be 
interpreted as an elevated recession risk and a slowdown that is going too quickly. So that’s just 
a little food for thought about something that we might encounter—I would say, with low 
probability, but we might encounter it during the spring, and that would be very immediate for 
this Committee. Which of those two explanations would we want to lean toward? 
Inflation continues to be quite muted. Whether you look at core PCE inflation or the 
Dallas Fed trimmed mean right at 2 percent, I don’t see very much upward inflation pressure. 
The St. Louis Fed inflation pressures index is pointing lower, not higher. The Tealbook has core 
PCE inflation slightly below target in 2019. Feedback from the real economy to inflation 
continues to be very weak. I see no end in sight for that. Inflation expectations are somewhat 
lower over the past six months. As you know, I don’t put a lot of weight on the decompositions 
of the TIPS compensation into the different categories. I think that those decompositions are 
heavily influenced by priors that go into the analysis at the beginning, which suggest that 
inflation expectations don’t move very much, so everything that happens in the data must be 
noise. And I don’t subscribe to those priors. Average inflation since 2012 is clearly below 2 

pe
rcent. An observer that came here from Mars and looked at the data would be forgiven if they 
thought our inflation target was 1½ percent. I think that has the potential to continue to drag 
inflation expectations lower. 
I agree with Governor Clarida that the yield curve remains an issue. I don’t think it’s an 
acute issue right at this moment. The spread between the 10-year Treasury rate and the 2-year 
Treasury rate has been fairly constant at a low level. I don’t see this getting worse, but I don’t 
see it getting better either. I wouldn’t mind if we found ways to increase the yield curve spread 
there, but I don’t see anything changing on that front in the near term. I do think we are 
susceptible to a yield curve inversion. If we got a very negative shock of some kind, probably 
the 10-year would deteriorate further, and possibly we’d get an inverted yield curve at that point. 
On policy, which I will talk about tomorrow, the flat expected rate path is very sensible, 
in my view. But I also think it’s not a moment for complacency. It’s never a moment for 
complacency. In the monetary policy world, you have to be alert to incoming data that may 
change the picture. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Reports from business contacts indicate that the 
pace of economic activity in the Fourth District has picked up in recent weeks, and sentiment has 
improved. The March reading of the Cleveland Fed staff’s diffusion index, which measures the 
difference in the percentage of business contacts reporting better versus worse conditions, went 
to 21, erasing January’s sharp decline. Contacts’ expectations regarding near-term growth also 
improved markedly. 
Some manufacturers did report slower order growth, but activity remains at relatively 
high levels, and some firms are being more cautious in managing their inventories and capital 

s
pending. Large regional banking contacts reported that, though commercial clients have voiced 
concerns about a slowdown in the global economy, most are sticking to plans to increase capital 
spending. 
District labor market conditions remain strong. Payroll employment has continued to 
grow at a 1 percent pace, well above the Cleveland Bank staff’s estimate of the District’s longer-
run trend growth rate. For more than a year, the District’s unemployment rate has remained at 
4½ percent, which is about ½ percentage point below our staff’s estimate of its longer-run 
normal level. And it’s near the lowest levels the region has seen since the early 2000s. 
Across various sectors, all of our contacts have consistently told us that their biggest 
concern is the difficulty in finding workers, and this is beginning to affect the level of activity. 
Indeed, one-third of District contacts reported that tight labor market conditions have impeded 
keeping pace with recent increases in product demand. Some firms have turned down, or have 
become more selective in taking on, new business. Some firms have delayed projects or built in 
longer production times. 
Although wage pressures continue, nonlabor cost pressures have eased since the middle 
of last year. Some manufacturers attributed lower input cost pressures to some retrenching in 
steel and aluminum prices after a large tariff-related run-up last year. Price pressures in the 
District remain elevated but are down somewhat compared with a year ago. In most cases, 
contacts noted that the price increases they have been able to secure have simply allowed them to 
maintain margins. Directors on the Cleveland board reported that they do have some pricing 
power, but margins continue to be squeezed. They also indicated that cost increases associated 
with commodity price changes have been easier to pass through to customers than those 
associated with higher wages. 

Fo
r the national economy, the tightening in financial conditions in the fourth quarter last 
year has mostly been reversed, and business, consumer, and investor sentiment have improved 
since our last meeting. Incoming data have been mixed but indicate growth has softened 
substantially in the first quarter. Consumer spending was weak in December, and early readings 
suggested it only partially recovered in January. Housing, manufacturing activity, and business 
investment have also slowed, as has global demand. Corporate earnings have been revised 
down, which suggests weaker investment spending than last year. The question is whether 
growth will continue to move down or whether we will see some rebound in the second quarter. 
In my view, the most likely outcome is that growth will pick up, although I intend to stay very 
attuned to incoming information on the U.S. and global economies, both the data and the reports 
from regional contacts. And I will be ready to adjust my forecast as necessary. 
I have marked down my 2019 growth forecast to reflect first-quarter softness, but my 
projection over the remaining forecast horizon is broadly similar to my December SEP forecast. 
My modal projection is that growth will be at or slightly above my trend growth rate of 2 percent 
over the remainder of the forecast horizon. This is slower than last year’s 3 percent pace, 
reflecting the waning effects of fiscal stimulus, past reductions in monetary accommodation, and 
softer global growth. 
Despite a weak reading on payroll job growth in February, the labor market is strong. 
Some of the weakness in February may have been weather related, and monthly job gains over 
the past three months have averaged a strong 186,000. The unemployment rate is low, and the 
job openings rate is at its highest level since the series started in 2000. I expect job growth to 
moderate over the forecast horizon but to be strong enough to absorb those entering the labor 

fo
rce. So the unemployment rate will remain under 4 percent, well below its longer-run level, 
which I put at 4½ percent. 
Now, if the economic expansion is to be sustained, it is unlikely job growth can stay as 
strong as last year’s pace of over 220,000 jobs per month. Conditional on demographic factors, 
including the aging of the population already under way, most estimates of trend job growth fall 
in a range of 75,000 to 120,000 per month. Of course, there is uncertainty around those 
estimates. It’s possible that the job gains, unemployment rates, and participation rates of the past 
couple of years mean those trend estimates are too pessimistic. But our assessments of 
demographic forces would have to be far off to produce a trend estimate in the range of 
180,000 to 200,000 per month. So we should not be too disappointed to see some moderation in 
job growth after last year’s levels. 
The continued strength in labor markets has led to a more pronounced pickup in wage 
growth. However, these gains have been in line with productivity growth, and so have not added 
to inflationary pressures. It is encouraging that productivity growth in the nonfarm business 
sector strengthened last year. But I think it’s too soon to tell whether the pickup will be 
sustained and support further acceleration in wages. 
In my view, the inflation picture remains roughly unchanged from the time of our last 
meeting. We saw some weaker readings on inflation in January and February, but this was as 
anticipated and largely reflected the drop in oil prices in the fourth quarter of last year. Oil 
prices have been moving back up since the start of the year, so these weaker readings are likely 
to be transitory. 
Although core CPI inflation slipped a bit last month, the move was small relative to 
normal month-to-month variation, and median CPI inflation edged up in February. The 

C
leveland Fed nowcast, which incorporates the available CPI releases, shows headline PCE 
inflation declining to 1.4 percent in February but core PCE inflation holding steady at 
1.9 percent. My expectation is that after the transitory softness in near-term readings, PCE 
inflation will be near 2 percent over the rest of the forecast horizon. 
Now, a crucial factor in this forecast is inflation expectations remaining well anchored. 
We have had mixed readings of late that bear watching. The five-year, five-year-forward 
estimate from the Cleveland Fed’s model of inflation expectations, which combines market and 
survey data, softened this month, but the Blue Chip consensus remained steady. The household 
survey measures of inflation expectations from the University of Michigan and New York Fed 
softened in February, but I think it’s too early to read too much into these declines. The changes 
are not outsized relative to usual monthly variation, and the Michigan survey’s preliminary 
estimate rebounded in March. A softening in inflation expectations, if sustained, is a downside 
risk to the inflation forecast. On the other hand, continually rising wage pressures pose some 
upside risk. 
With respect to growth, there is some risk that the weak first-quarter GDP report will 
damage consumer and business confidence that the expansion is sustainable and cause them to 
become more cautious with their spending. The weak GDP report may be a catalyst for the 
concern that several bankers expressed to me that we are “talking ourselves into a recession” 
despite solid fundamentals. 
Other risks to the outlook are largely the ones we have been discussing over past 
meetings. The economies in Europe and China are slowing, and forecasts have been revised 
down once again. The ultimate outcome of Brexit is increasingly unclear, which could increase 
financial market volatility and feed back on our economy. On the other hand, the postponement 

o
f additional tariffs that were set to be imposed on imports from China has reduced some 
uncertainty and has given firms more time to reorient their supply chain. 
I want to thank the staff for the excellent memos on leveraged lending and business-
sector lending in the QS report. I hope we will continue to follow these trends. I was glad to 
learn that the staff plans to conduct a review of LISCC firms’ indirect exposures to leveraged 
lending and weaker underwriting standards. Our estimates of potential losses are based on 
historical losses, but this may be an underestimate, given that a large share of these loans is now 
going to less creditworthy borrowers. As they say, past performance may not be indicative of 
future results. 
I continue to see some risk coming from elevated levels of leveraged loans going to less 
creditworthy borrowers. Commercial real estate valuations remain “lofty.” There was a lost 
opportunity to increase the countercyclical capital buffer. While the stress tests are correctly 
designed to evaluate whether banks’ capital levels are sufficient to allow them to continue to 
lend during a severe stress event, whether the banks would actually choose to do so is an open 
question. Financial vulnerabilities could amplify an economic slowdown. 
On the upside, a more favorable resolution of these situations means that the outlook 
could turn out to be better than expected, and the strength of the labor market, easing of financial 
conditions, and improvement in sentiment also provide some upside risk to the forecast. 
So, based on my assessment of the economy and risk, my modal outlook includes a few 
more increases in the funds rate, but I acknowledge there is considerable uncertainty around that 
path, both because economic shocks may mean the economy may evolve differently than 
expected, but also because it’s not entirely clear what policy rate path is consistent with the 
outcomes in my modal forecast. This is another way of saying that there is uncertainty 

as
sociated with estimates of both r* and u*. The funds rate is now at the bottom of the range of 
estimates of its longer-run neutral rate, and the economy is in a good spot with respect to our 
dual-mandate goals. So this gives us the opportunity to continue to gather information on the 
economy and assess our outlook and the risk before making any further adjustment in the policy 
rate. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. While our economy continues to add jobs at a solid pace, 
demand appears to have softened against a backdrop of greater downside risks. 
First, with regard to the modal outlook: Softer spending in the United States and the 
slowdown abroad, together with some possible overhang on sentiment from earlier financial 
volatility, are likely weighing on the modal outlook and could be a harbinger of slowing in the 
underlying momentum of demand. Real GDP growth slowed at the end of last year, with fourth-
quarter growth estimated at only about 2¼ percent at an annual rate, compared with 3½ percent 
in the previous quarter. A variety of estimates have real GDP increasing closer to a 1 percent 
annual rate in the current quarter. 
I’ve been watching consumer spending carefully, starting with a sharp dropoff in retail 
sales in the last month of the fourth quarter. There have been some offsetting developments 
since that time. The January retail sales data showed a partial rebound, and consumer sentiment 
has bounced back from its earlier decline that now appears related to the shutdown. Even so, 
auto sales are also down so far this year, and the preliminary February retail sales data that 
Stacey mentioned suggest another decline. So there are reasons to be vigilant. 
There are also indications of softening in business fixed investment in comparison to the 
strong gains registered last year. The latest data on capital goods orders suggests some 

s
oftening. Surveys of business sentiment have generally moved lower over the past six months, 
reversing much of the run-up seen previously. And I wouldn’t discount that the sharp repricing 
of risk late last year has left an imprint on current sentiment. 
Beyond our shores, the foreign outlook has weakened considerably and is a notable 
crosscurrent to the modal outlook. Foreign growth projections have been revised down 
repeatedly, and the slowdown now appears to be more persistent than initially assumed, with 
growth likely running below potential for much of last year. 
In China, economic activity slowed noticeably in the second half of last year. 
Policymakers have been trying to achieve a balance between, on the one hand, restraining very 
elevated levels of debt, which can be seen in the sharp declines in credit, while, on the other, 
maintaining strong aggregate growth. The protracted trade conflict with the United States has 
complicated that challenge. 
Concerns about China’s slowdown are reverberating globally, as was true in 2015 and 
’16, although the incidence today is quite different. The weakness in Germany now appears to 
be more persistent and pronounced than had been anticipated late last year, and the euro area is 
seeing slowing in other large member economies. I am very concerned about these signs of 
slowing in Europe, since policy space appears to be constrained for political and institutional 
reasons. Global weakness in trade and manufacturing has also weighed on Japan. 
In contrast to the signs of softening in real activity, financial conditions have loosened 
further since our last meeting, unwinding the tightening that occurred late last year. Notably, the 
10-year Treasury yield moved down 15 basis points. Risky yields have fallen even more with 
spreads on high-yield corporate bonds moving down a further 30 basis points, and the S&P 500 
index is up almost 7 percent over the intermeeting period. In an encouraging sign, five-year, 

fiv
e-year-forward inflation compensation is up by about 15 basis points. The change in our 
anticipated policy rate path has likely contributed to these developments. 
Although risks associated with financial market volatility have eased, other risks around 
the modal outlook appear tilted to the downside. The accumulation of policy-related risks in 
particular remains prominent. In addition to creating hardship for many families, the 
unexpectedly long shutdown has increased attention on the possibility for disruptions in 
upcoming fiscal negotiations. In particular, the debt ceiling will need to be raised in the fall, and 
the Bipartisan Budget Act is scheduled to expire in 2020. If agreement isn’t reached, spending 
levels could fall back to the sequester caps, and this would amount to a significant headwind 
compared with the 1/3 percentage point boost to U.S. real GDP growth estimated for this year 
and last. Recent developments suggest that prospects for an immediate “no deal” Brexit have 
receded. Nonetheless, the situation remains highly uncertain. And a hard landing in China 
would obviously have spillovers through financial and trade channels. 
Finally, the slope of the yield curve, as was noted earlier, continues to send worrisome 
signals. As reported in the Tealbook, the recession probability, based on the spread between the 
10-year Treasury rate and 3-month T-bill rate, was at nearly 60 percent. While that probability 
may well be overstated because it’s estimated on historical data that do not take into account 
today’s unusually low term premiums, nonetheless, I am watching these and other indicators 
carefully, as it does appear that recession risks currently are higher than average. 
Let me wrap up with a very brief discussion of our dual-mandate goals. The recent labor 
market data have been quite mixed. Payroll employment increased by only 20,000 in February. 
Obviously, those numbers can be quite volatile from month to month. Poor weather may have 
accounted for some of last month’s weakness, and we don’t see the same weakness in the 

hous
ehold survey. Still, the independent ADP measure of payroll gains was also soft in 
February. And, broadly speaking, although initial claims for unemployment insurance remain 
near the low levels that have prevailed in the past couple of years, they, too, have trended up a bit 
recently. 
The February readings on inflation were also on the soft side, consistent with core PCE 
prices rising about 1.8 percent over the 12 months through February. We’ll need to be vigilant to 
ensure inflation achieves 2 percent on a sustained basis. Underlying trend inflation continues to 
be running slightly below the Committee’s 2 percent objective. This is indicated by many 
statistical filtering models and corroborated by some survey measures. 
The fact that estimates of underlying trend inflation remain on the soft side reinforces the 
evidence that the Phillips curve is very flat, and the available evidence suggests that inflation 
expectations remain well anchored to the upside. And, if anything, the contours of today’s “new 
normal” suggest we should be equally attentive to a risk of erosion in inflation expectations to 
the downside. 
With the goal now being to preserve the progress we’ve made toward maximum 
employment and target inflation, this does suggest that taking out some insurance against the 
possibility that some of these risks may materialize should be a factor in appropriate monetary 
policy. Further bolstering that case is the proximity of interest rates to their effective lower 
bounds. All of these considerations, I believe, reinforce the case for watchful waiting—a subject 
that I will return to tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Productivity is very high today. It is 2:25, and 
I’m speaker number 10. [Laughter] 

T
he reports given by my directors and other contacts were similar to the past round. 
Despite the still-present downside risks and softer data, they see overall domestic demand 
remaining solid and continued labor market strength. Nevertheless, even with higher wage 
growth, overall inflationary pressures appear to have ticked down. Not surprisingly, several of 
my contacts with an international presence reported weaker activity abroad. However, most 
reports about the U.S. economy were still positive. The CEO of a manufacturing conglomerate 
indicated that his cap-ex–related sales continue to be relatively strong. Similarly, two heavy 
equipment manufacturers reported no material change in domestic business conditions since 
January. In contrast, a large steelmaker in my District has become less optimistic about 2019. 
The CEO now says that his benchmark expectation is for steel consumption to be flat this year. 
The reports on consumer spending were mixed. One of our directors runs a major 
clothing firm that produces work and outdoor clothing lines. She reported a strong start to the 
year. She also noted that while mall-based retailers continue to struggle, many of her contacts 
from other retail segments expect robust sales in 2019. Our director from the financial services 
industry reported that after a very strong 2018, growth in credit card volume slowed, but it 
stabilized at still-solid levels. However, retail auto sales have been softer in recent months, and 
the major manufacturers are closely monitoring developments to see if production cuts might be 
warranted. 
Despite the weak February employment report, the reports on labor markets were 
generally positive. For instance, the head of a major temporary help services firm said that 
nearly all of their domestic clients are reporting solid labor demand. Pay rates have been steadily 
increasing, with lower-paying jobs in particular seeing faster wage growth. This is a continuing 
storyline, as the benefits from tight labor markets are spreading to broader groups of workers. 

T
his CEO reported another interesting development. Apparently, in normal times, a big part of 
success in the temp help business is convincing client firms that they need to raise pay. He says 
it is usually like pulling teeth because clients are seeking to lower costs, not to raise them. 
Lately, they are calling him to ask whether higher wages are needed to actually attract the 
workers that they need. 
Even with rising wages, a number of contacts reported an expectation of easing pricing 
pressures. Most have already priced in past cost increases due to tariffs and other input cost 
pressures. With commodity prices easing and tariffs not expected to rise further, these contacts 
expect a softer pricing environment in the second half of the year. 
Turning to the national outlook, we continue to face large uncertainties and a challenging 
forecast environment. Like the Tealbook, we expect real growth to recover after the current 
quarter, though without any makeup for the first-quarter miss. As a result, our GDP forecast for 
this year is now at 1.8 percent. This is ½ percentage point lower than our projection in the 
December SEPs and a touch below our estimate of potential output growth. In 2020 and ’21, 
growth is projected to remain modestly below potential, little changed from our December path. 
We now see the unemployment rate holding steady at 3.8 percent this year and next, before 
starting to edge up in 2021. In December, we thought unemployment would fall to around 
3½ percent in 2019 and ’20. This reduced degree of resource pressure is a downside factor in my 
inflation outlook. 
In addition, I continue to be concerned that inflation expectations are too low relative to 
our objective. Household survey measures have not moved up despite the stronger inflation data 
since last March. The recent increase in TIPS breakevens largely appears to reflect higher oil 
prices. In any event, they remain low relative to previous periods when inflation was more in 

l
ine with our 2 percent objective. That said, I have not changed my inflation projection since 
December. My SEP still has core PCE inflation at 2 percent this year before it gradually edges 
up to 2.2 percent in 2021. But to achieve this outcome and to get our growth forecast, I think we 
need a more accommodative monetary policy than I submitted for my December SEP. I’ll talk 
more about my new policy assumptions tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. We’re going to take a little coffee break now. And 
we’re basically a little ahead of schedule. Famous last words. [Laughter] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Don’t forget, I haven’t gone. [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Why don’t we come back at 10 minutes of. We’ll do that. Ten 
minutes by that clock. 
[Coffee break] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. We continue with Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As everyone has noted, some 
of the recent data have been disappointing. And, accordingly, even I have marked down my 
forecast for the first half of 2019, but I haven’t gone quite as far as the staff. Some of the recent 
weakness seems a bit mysterious and, as a consequence, I am discounting it a bit. For example, 
as has been noted, the December fall in retail sales, even if confirmed by the revision, was out of 
step with some other indicators. For example, very shortly after that number came out, I was 
meeting with the CEO of a major credit card company about some regulatory matter or another, 
and he volunteered that their data, which covered 50 percent of all retail transactions in the 
United States, showed no slowdown at all. He was completely unable to account for the 
December number. I wonder if something odd might be going on with that data, especially in 
light of the government shutdown. Again, even though we’ve had revisions confirming it and 

t
hat not much of the December decline was made up in January, but I am downweighting those 
observations a bit until more data become available. 
As President Mester, among others, has noted, the weak payroll data in February likely 
reflected the weather to a certain extent. Also, looking back over the data, one-time drop-offs of 
a similar magnitude to the one we saw in February don’t appear to be that rare. There were 
similar-sized hiring pauses in 2016 and 2017 without much effect. And February’s weak number 
is even less worrying, given that, unlike other big declines in the past, it came after the 
exceptionally strong January number. And, finally, the payroll report seems a bit at odds with 
the labor force survey, which was strong, with unemployment ticking down and labor force 
participation ticking up. 
Outside the first half, my outlook is largely unchanged. I have growth picking up later in 
the year and then gradually easing to a longer-run rate that remains considerably stronger than 
the staff’s forecast and most of the SEP numbers as well. Relative to the staff outlook, my 
relative optimism owes to two factors: investment and productivity growth. On investment, the 
staff forecast for equipment and intangibles expenditure has a relatively sharp deceleration from 
7½ percent last year to only 2.7 percent this year and then lower still in the years after that. In 
contrast, I expect investment—although this is a volatile number—to remain over the course of 
time relatively robust, supported by the tax bill, profit growth, and a generally favorable business 
environment. 
Perhaps part of the difference between the staff investment outlook and my own is the 
divergence in our projected path for interest rates. Despite having one of the most robust policy 
rate paths in the SEP, I still don’t have rates rising anywhere near as high as the staff, so I see 

le
ss of a drag from interest rates on investment, more substantial capital deepening, and faster 
potential growth. 
Productivity is another point of difference that I have with the staff forecast. I am very 
encouraged by the step-up in labor productivity growth to almost 2 percent last year. Now, the 
staff has chosen not to take much signal from last year’s higher growth. That might be the right 
decision, but surely there is some upside risk around this outlook. And I think there are many 
reasons to believe that faster productivity growth could be more persistent. For one, it could be 
that tight labor markets have played a role in boosting productivity and that this trend could 
continue. 
On inflation, as I have pointed out before, I view the current core rate of 1.9 percent as 
being effectively on target. Given the volatility and idiosyncrasies of the data, I am not 
particularly troubled by being a tenth or two away from our 2 percent. I have also been 
encouraged by the continued climb in nominal wage growth. Average hourly earnings increased 
3.4 percent over the 12 months ending in February, just the latest post-crisis high as wages 
continue their steady climb up. As always, I find the data on inflation expectations difficult to 
interpret. Market-based measures have moved back up since January, but they still remain below 
where they were before their plunge late last year. 
A further puzzle about these measures that I find striking and somewhat confusing is how 
correlated supposedly far-dated inflation expectations seem to be with spot oil prices. The fall in 
expectations last year coincided with a sharp fall in oil prices, just as the more recent recovery 
matched a bounce-back in oil prices, which is curious. And—transparency being my shield and 
my halberd—I am SEP participant number 4. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 

M
R. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Like many of you around the table, many of our 
internal discussions this round were about what to make of the recent weakness in the economic 
data. The perspectives offered by Sixth District contacts and directors has me holding close to 
my previous forecast. Sentiment remained relatively upbeat this cycle. Business leaders 
generally expect 2019 to be a solid year for growth, albeit slower than the swift pace we saw last 
year. The upshift to a more optimistic view than in December is clearly connected to a 
dissipation in perceptions of downside risks associated with financial market volatility and 
disruptive trade policies. 
Many of my contacts offered up the judgment that the Committee’s messaging had also 
removed some uncertainty related to the path of interest rates. As one of my directors bluntly put 
it, “I can deal with uncertainty around higher tariffs or higher interest rates, not both.” 
[Laughter] Consistent with the notion that uncertainty has abated somewhat, the uncertainty 
index from our Survey of Business Uncertainty, or SBU, fell moderately in February. Work 
done by my staff suggests that the SBU index statistically follows movements in the VIX but 
with a significant lag. Our interpretation is that firms in the survey are, for the most part, not 
overly influenced by transitory shocks to the market. 
Similarly, our conversations indicate that businesses are taking the recent weak spending 
data with a grain of salt. Like many here, I did not get a sense from my contacts that the 
trajectory of consumer spending has softened materially. In fact, like President Evans, I heard 
specifically from my directors in the banking industry that credit and debit card spending 
remained solid thus far this year. And a director connected to a large global transportation 
company noted that residential package deliveries remained strong, at least through February. 

A
s an aside, there was an interesting comment from a director of a regional charity 
organization. Following the Netflix release of Tidying Up with Marie Kondo [laughter]—you 
guys watch this, I know you do—this organization noted an unusual double-digit increase in 
donations in January, a month in which donations typically fall off. Apparently, the show is 
inspiring households to declutter. While he expected to be overwhelmed with this newfound 
inventory, this contact noted an accompanying sharp increase in sales growth, particularly for 
low-income individuals. His sense was that these folks were trading down from discount big-
box shopping out of a need to stretch their budgets. I think this is a good reminder that 
households experience the economy from vastly different positions. Strain at the low end of the 
income and wealth spectrum may be growing. 
The other area of notable weakness in the macrodata stream was, of course, the February 
jobs report. As with the incoming sales figures, sentiment from my contacts is not consistent 
with a collapse in employment growth. Most expected the pace of hiring to continue on a solid 
rate. Despite continuing indications that labor market conditions are tight, there has been little 
change in firms’ collective appetite for raising wages. Reported annual wage increases, on 
average, remained around 3 to 3½ percent. This is consistent with the flattening trajectory we 
have seen in our Wage Growth Tracker. 
It does appear that firms have stepped up their nonwage efforts. Across the board, 
businesses continue to fine-tune their suite of tools used to attract and retain workers. This 
includes increased investments in training, enhanced benefits, renewed focus on culture, 
technological solutions to deal with the lack of worker availability, and so on. When prompted 
at our Atlanta board meeting, directors expressed the view that the labor market tightness they 
are experiencing is a new normal driven by behavioral, demographic, and structural changes in 

t
he workforce. And I am paraphrasing, but they do not seem to view labor market tightness as 
being driven excessively by hot demand conditions that will ultimately dissipate as the economy 
slows. 
This cycle, we put a particular emphasis on engaging with our contacts around margin 
compression. Sentiment regarding margins continues to be mixed, though the majority of 
contacts are reporting little concern about compression. Among those firms experiencing or 
expecting pressure on their margins, responses still indicate a reluctance to raise prices. Some 
even indicated they would rather accept lower profits and/or delay cap-ex and hiring decisions. 
Upcoming results from the System’s national Small Business Credit Survey dovetail with the 
anecdotal reports. As a preview, less than half of all small businesses—the modal firm in the 
survey had fewer than five employees and annual revenue of $1 million or less—raised their 
price over the past about 12 months, and this is despite the fact that more than 70 percent of the 
sample experienced input cost increases. 
As I mentioned at the outset, I am largely holding to my previous growth narrative—
solid, above-trend growth and firming inflation, until we accumulate further evidence that the 
economy has moved off its modestly above-trend trajectory. I see the risk to the outlook as 
balanced. While there are a handful of easily identifiable downside risks at present, against the 
backdrop of last year’s stimulative fiscal measures and tax reform, and the possible resolution of 
key global uncertainties, we could just as easily see a repeat of last year’s strong household 
spending and solid investment performance. I am feeling quite patient, but more on that 
tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 

M
S. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The outlook for the 10th District economy 
remains positive overall, but signs of moderating growth are prevalent. Construction activity 
started to slow in late 2018, and both apartment and office completions are projected to decline. 
Even in Denver, the fastest-growing metro area in our District, construction activity is expected 
to moderate over the next year. Our latest surveys of District manufacturers and service 
providers also pointed to softer readings. Business contacts noted that new orders, shipments, 
and exports softened in recent months, but they continue to report labor shortages for both skilled 
and entry-level positions, with 2 to 4 percent wage growth expected this year. 
Energy activity is holding steady with oil prices near breakeven levels but below the price 
needed to substantially increase drilling. Looking ahead, our contacts expect prices to remain in 
the $55 to $60 range this year, with few prospects for investment in new structures in the near 
term, and some signs that new drilling activity is slowing. 
Finally, the farm sector remains stuck with low commodity prices and persistently high 
input cost. And with serious flooding in parts of the region, it is literally stuck in the mud as the 
spring planting season approaches. Even so, financial stress among agricultural borrowers has 
been relatively muted, given the combination of stable farm real estate values as support for bank 
operating lines and some level of cash flow support from government payments associated with 
trade disruptions. 
For the national outlook, my March SEP points to growth slowing to its trend rate over 
the forecast horizon and the unemployment rate declining somewhat further, then stabilizing 
with subdued inflation. I see risks as tilted to the downside. These risks, combined with the 
latent effects of last year’s rate increases, have led me to flatten my policy rate path in the 
interest of risk management. My outlook for slower but above-trend growth this year reflects 

m
omentum in consumer spending. In particular, total labor compensation and overall income 
growth suggest that household income is growing at a solid pace and that the gains from the 
current economic expansion are being broadly distributed across households. 
Recent census data shows that lower-income households are experiencing very strong 
growth in real income. The years 2015 to 2017 mark the first 3-year period in the past 50 years 
in which the bottom two quintiles of the income distribution have both experienced mean 
household real income growth at an annual rate greater than 3 percent. 
My outlook for the labor market also remains positive, although I expect that we could 
see a moderation in employment growth this year. The modest gains reflected in the February 
jobs report leave employers adding 186,000 new jobs, on average, over the past three months, 
which is in line with my own expectations. Evidence of slowing labor market momentum over 
the past six months shows up in the Kansas City Fed’s Labor Market Conditions Indicators. 
Across 24 labor market variables used to construct this measure, the key drivers pointing to the 
deceleration in momentum are declines in the ISM manufacturing employment index, the 
Michigan consumer survey of expected job availability, announced job cuts based on a survey by 
Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the NFIB survey of the percent of firms planning increases in 
employment, and aggregate weekly earnings. Also worth noting, the February jobs report made 
no contribution to the decline in momentum over the past six months. This current lower reading 
for momentum does suggest that while the employment rate could decline further, the pace of job 
gains is likely to slow this year. 
While consumption is on track to be the principal driver of growth, the outlook for 
business investment is more mixed. Orders for core capital goods, which I see as a leading 
indicator of business equipment investment, have declined in recent months, suggesting slower 

gr
owth for equipment investment this year. On the other hand, our District business contacts 
suggest they will continue to invest in equipment that can mitigate the effects of ongoing labor 
shortages and also to accommodate high sales volumes, even as capital costs have increased 
modestly. Our contacts also noted that competition for market share in wireless networks related 
to the deployment of 5G networks will support large equipment expenditures for the next couple 
of years and that these plans are already well in train. 
I continue to see a benign outlook for inflation. While we remain without PCE inflation 
data from January and February, recent readings from the consumer price index suggest that 
inflationary pressures remain moderate. In particular, the prices of goods made a positive 
contribution to overall inflation during the middle of 2018, and the latest CPI report confirms 
that goods price inflation is moderating to typical levels, mitigating overall price pressure. I 
expect dollar appreciation and energy price declines that occurred last year to feed through into 
core prices, which will likely exert downward inflationary pressure throughout much of the year. 
Finally, I see the balance of risk to my outlook for the U.S. economy as having tilted to 
the downside and emanating primarily from slowing global growth in the euro area, the United 
Kingdom, Japan, and China as well as global economic policy uncertainty more generally. This 
downside risk could also expose vulnerabilities associated with a highly leveraged corporate 
sector, as President Kaplan highlighted earlier. During the intermeeting period, market 
expectations for corporate earnings were revised down, reflecting a weaker global outlook. 
In addition to U.S. exporters, nearly one-fourth of U.S. employment is at multinational 
corporations whose earnings rely in part on revenues flowing from foreign sales. Slowing 
demand abroad creates a substantial headwind for these corporations, many of which already 

c
arry high levels of debt. A further decline in corporate earnings could be a source of stress to 
debt service capacity and lead to spillovers in investment, hiring, and overall economic growth. 
 My federal funds rate SEP submission, giving the path of appropriate monetary policy, 
has flattened. With limited monetary and fiscal policy space to respond to potential shocks, the 
current low inflation environment offers the opportunity to monitor these risks while the effect of 
our past policy tightening continues to move through the economy. And I will talk more about 
that tomorrow. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. In my view, the Committee’s decision in 
January to emphasize that we would take a patient approach appears to have been the appropriate 
course of action. In support of this view, we have seen evidence of several pieces of economic 
data since then showing signs of weaker spending. 
Even though financial markets have been volatile, the performance of the U.S. economy 
ended last year on a high note. The Board staff now estimate that the pace of real GDP growth 
was a solid 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter, with the unemployment rate at 3.8 percent. This 
figure is remarkably low even when compared with other periods when our economy was 
considered to be particularly healthy. 
The economic data that have come in since the January meeting seem to suggest that 
domestic spending growth has slowed down markedly this quarter. Most notably, the latest retail 
sales data, which were delayed because of the government shutdown, dropped sharply in 
December and only slightly reversed that decline in January. Other data show that businesses cut 
back on new orders for capital goods toward the end of 2018. So it now appears business 
investment growth is also cooling this quarter. 

Mo
re generally, it now seems that aggregate demand is headed for a weaker growth 
trajectory at the start of this year, with the Board staff currently forecasting that real GDP growth 
will likely register a rate below 2 percent and possibly as low as around 1 percent in the first 
quarter. Some of the recent softness in spending is likely a result of the government shutdown, 
which undoubtedly weighed heavily on the minds and checkbooks of many consumers and 
business owners. The sharp decline in consumer confidence that we observed in January tells a 
consistent story. 
And while my expectation is still that the effects of this shutdown will be fairly well 
contained within the first quarter, broad uncertainty about government policies seems to me to be 
a continued source of concern. In particular, discussions about the debt ceiling will soon be on 
the horizon. 
The housing sector has remained a weak spot in the domestic economy. Residential 
investment declined throughout last year, and the incoming data and indicators have remained 
weak in recent months, yielding another lower forecast for this quarter. After peaking last fall, 
mortgage rates have dropped to their lowest levels in more than a year, which should positively 
affect housing demand. But because there’s a time lag response of homebuyers to lower 
mortgage rates, it will likely be some time before the housing sector expands meaningfully again. 
Other factors are weighing on the outlook for economic growth this year, including 
continued uncertainties about global economic conditions and trade, particularly—as many 
others have noted—uncertainty in the EU, the slowdown in China, and ongoing unresolved trade 
negotiations. Even so, I see reasons for optimism about the overall direction in which the 
economy is headed. For one, financial market conditions have improved in recent weeks, and 
they’ve now reversed much of the tightening we observed toward the end of 2018. 

E
quity prices have recovered a good amount from their December lows, and borrowing 
rates for both households and businesses have eased noticeably. In all, I think conditions appear 
broadly supportive of spending, although markets remain somewhat more volatile than usual. 
In addition, the labor market continues to perform well. To be sure, the small increase in 
the jobs numbers for February was disappointing, but the Board staff who study these numbers 
closely see evidence that some of the weakness in February was weather related. And I’m also 
comforted by the fact that while the average rate of job creation in January and February was 
slower than last year’s average of 223,000 a month, it was still a solid growth number. And, as I 
noted earlier, the unemployment rate continues to be very low—well below what the staff notes 
is the natural rate of unemployment. 
Other labor market indicators that analysts often point to still seem to be generally 
positive: labor force participation has picked up, layoffs are low, and measures of job openings 
and help-wanted ads are near their highest levels on record. That said, I am worried that the 
recovery in unemployment in rural areas appears to be lagging behind other parts of the country. 
This is not surprising, as most trends tend to reach rural areas with a delay, but it’s still 
concerning to me. And I will continue to monitor levels of access to Social Security and 
disability benefits and other factors in these regions. 
In my view, the uneven economic performance across geographic areas should be 
followed carefully. The challenging conditions in the agriculture sector, as both Presidents 
Bullard and George mentioned, are another ongoing concern in rural areas of the country. After 
the shutdown ended, the USDA released its updated forecast of farm income. For 2019, they 
expect a small increase over 2018, but one that is below the average of the past four years and 
well below the peak in 2013. 

Ag-
sector bankruptcies and nonperforming loans have remained well below levels 
observed during the 1980s, but the ongoing upward drift in these measures continues to weigh 
negatively on the outlook, particularly in the Midwest and the Plains regions and areas more 
concentrated with dairy producers. In addition, as President George mentioned, the recent 
flooding affecting farms and livestock producers in the Midwest is another big concern. 
Other areas, such as California, are faring relatively well, given their production of more 
high-value crops like almonds, pistachios, grapes, and strawberries, which require more intensive 
labor to produce. In many ag regions, liquidity risk is ongoing as farm debt continues to rise, 
with carryover debt increasing year on year, although it is still low by historical standards. 
Regarding national conditions, the news on inflation has also been generally positive. 
PCE price inflation was close to our 2 percent target over the 12-month period ending in 
December, and recent readings on inflation expectations have remained stable. Wage growth 
also looks to be gradually getting stronger. Taking all of this into consideration, I believe that 
developments on the price-stability side of our mandate continue to suggest that we can take time 
to monitor the effect of the Committee’s earlier actions without the expectation of further 
immediate or pending actions. 
In conclusion, I continue to see several factors that pose risks to the outlook for economic 
growth, particularly foreign economic growth and trade policies. But I continue to expect that 
the domestic economy will transition smoothly from the strong real GDP growth in 2018 to a 
more moderate pace this year. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the intermeeting period, the Ninth 
District saw a nice boost with the birth of my daughter [laughter], Ulysses Sabine Kashkari, who 

a
rrived on February 4, 2019, weighing in at seven pounds, four ounces. Mom and baby are 
doing great. I would note that my daughter chose to arrive so as to share a birthday with the 
Chairman, and I think that means she’s off to a very good start. [Laughter] 
Outside the Kashkari household, modest growth continues in the Ninth District. Most 
sectors are doing well, though consumer spending has been mixed of late, and agriculture, as 
others have noted, remains weak. Unemployment rates in the District are holding steady at 
around 3 percent, and wage and price growth remains moderate. 
Regarding the national economy, the economy appears to have slowed a little bit around 
the turn of the year. Much of the slowdown is attributable to consumption, but consumer 
confidence remains high. Like the Tealbook, I expect spending and output to bounce back. Still, 
there is somewhat of an increase in downside risk in the past few months. 
As we look at the labor markets and the very weak February payrolls report, my base 
case is that it’s probably going to turn out to be a blip. I don’t want to overreact to it, but it’s 
something I’m obviously paying close attention to. Average hourly earnings continue to rise 
slowly, but labor productivity has also picked up. So wage growth is not yet signaling an 
increase of price pressure ahead. And I also welcome the staff’s revision to their assessment of 
trend labor force participation. I hope we can continue to see that trend continue both with the 
staff and with the economy. 
Regarding inflation, 12-month core PCE inflation is still running slightly below 2 
percent. Survey measures of inflation expectations have slipped a bit. Michigan long-term 
inflation expectations remain low. The New York Fed survey also fell. On the other hand, the 
risk-neutral probabilities based on inflation derivatives show that inflation risks at the five-year 
horizon are now roughly balanced after being tilted to the downside in recent months. 

R
egarding financial markets, I also am paying attention to long-term Treasury yields, 
which have come down. Ten-year Treasury rates are now around 2.6 percent, possibly signaling 
a weaker outlook for real GDP growth, and, as others noted, the yield curve remains very flat, 
and I am watching that closely. Other downside risks remain, such as economic growth around 
the world, especially Europe and China, as we heard in the briefing earlier, and Brexit remains 
highly unpredictable. 
So, in summary, I continue to see modest growth coming ahead with somewhat more of a 
tilt to downside risks, and those risks seem to have increased somewhat. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My assessment of recent 
economic developments is quite similar to that in the Tealbook. After the sharp deterioration we 
saw in the fourth quarter, financial conditions have rebounded, supported by our communications 
emphasizing patience and data dependence. Credit spreads have narrowed, equity indexes are 
up, and long-term interest rates have come down. In contrast, the indicators of economic growth 
have moderated, with consumption and investment losing momentum. 
To align with the disappointing tone of the economic news here and abroad, I have once 
again revised down my 2019 growth forecast and now expect growth this year to come in at 
1.9 percent, a bit above my 1.8 percent estimate for potential. I’m SEP respondent number 8. 
With growth expected to run around trend this year and next, I see the unemployment rate 
staying close to its current level of around 3¾ percent. 
The softness in recent readings of inflation and inflation expectations has caused me to 
lower my forecast of core inflation this year to 1.9 percent, as in the Tealbook. I now see 

in
flation reaching, on a sustained basis, our 2 percent target for next year. With the economy 
very near our dual-mandate goals, growth close to trend, and the funds rate right at my estimate 
of neutral, I penciled in no rate increases for this year. 
Of course, there are risks associated with this otherwise quite favorable forecast, with an 
intensification of the global growth slowdown high on the list. In particular, my staff has delved 
into the risks posed by a sharp slowdown in China. Like the recent Board staff presentation on 
this topic, they find that alternative indicators of China’s economy point to somewhat weaker 
growth of late than the official real GDP growth rates. But, at least so far, this appears to be a 
manageable bump on the road rather than the feared hard landing. While we cannot rule out a 
hard landing–type scenario, I get some comfort in the knowledge that Chinese policymakers 
appear to have ample policy space and the willingness to use it to steady their economy. 
The same is not true for Europe. As Governor Clarida pointed out, we are seeing pretty 
significant weakening in the economic outlook. Especially regarding monetary policy, they 
don’t have very much policy space. In this context, the possibility of a further deterioration in 
the outlook for Europe is especially worrisome. 
Regarding the outlook for inflation, recent data prove how hard it is to get inflation back 
to our 2 percent goal despite an otherwise very strong economy. This persistent undershoot in 
inflation, despite unemployment below 4 percent, is often attributed to a flattening of the Phillips 
curve. But what may otherwise appear to be a breakdown in the Phillips curve likely reflects a 
number of supply and other factors that have been affecting inflation, and these interfere with our 
ability to clearly measure the effects of labor market slack on inflation. 
So think about what the Phillips curve is trying to tell us. It’s trying to say it’s where the 
state of the economy is relative to full employment and its effect on inflation. Of course, there 

ar
e a lot of other things, as President Daly just mentioned, that do affect inflation. And to the 
extent that those are moving around a lot, that makes it harder to see this relationship. 
One solution to this problem is to focus on categories of prices that are less prone to 
measurement error in some of these supply-side and other factors. This approach follows in the 
tradition of using core inflation that excludes food and energy components that are primarily 
driven by idiosyncratic factors rather than the amount of slack in the economy. One such 
measure has been proposed by Jim Stock and Mark Watson. They call this “cyclically sensitive 
inflation,” or CSI. Similar ideas have been studied and developed by economists at the New 
York and San Francisco Feds. Using CSI to measure inflation, there is no evidence of a 
flattening of the short-run Phillips curve. But then that leads to questions of why inflation is so 
low. If it is not a flattening of the Phillips curve that explains it, then what does? One 
explanation is that it’s the intercept of the Phillips curve that may be significantly lower than in 
the past. 
Now, the intercept of the Phillips curve reflects two influences on inflation, neither of 
which we can easily measure. One is the amount of slack or the natural rate of unemployment or 
some idea of potential output, and then the other is inflation expectations. 
So there are two possible explanations based on this for why inflation is low. One 
possible explanation is the one assumed by the Board staff. They argue that labor markets are, 
indeed, very tight. Unemployment is well below its natural rate, but inflation expectations are 
anchored below our long-run target. And, as they have shown in a number of presentations, that 
explanation actually fits the data reasonably well. 
The second possibility is that inflation expectations are anchored roughly at our target, 
but labor markets are also roughly in balance. Again, this is kind of arithmetic here. You can 

e
xplain the low inflation because you think that either the natural rate of unemployment is really 
low or that inflation expectations are anchored too low. Either of these is plausible. As 
Governor Quarles and others mentioned, we never have absolute truth over these various 
measures of inflation expectations or other things. 
At one level, this sounds like not a very satisfactory discussion, because it sounds like we 
don’t really know what’s happening. For example, if you look at a wide range of estimates 
coming out of recent research by economists around the Fed, you can come to the view that the 
natural rate of unemployment is somewhere between 4 and 4½ percent, and that seems like a 
pretty large gap. But it’s actually one that is not particularly important for our policy decisions. 
Let me talk a little bit about that. I have two hours, right? [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes, you’re on a roll. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Let’s just assume that the truth is that u* is close to 4.5, like 
the Board staff assumes and I have assumed in the past, but that inflation expectations are 
anchored below target. In that case, the policy prescription is going to be to keep unemployment 
well below u* in order to boost inflation as inflation is fighting upstream against these low 
inflation expectations. That is my interpretation of how the Tealbook forecast holds together. 
So if you really think that u* is 4½ percent in the long run, but the inflation expectations are 
anchored too low, we still need to run a hot economy to get inflation consistently at our target. 
On the other hand, some of this research that argues that u* is really 4 percent and 
inflation expectations are essentially at target. Well, that gives you the obvious answer. Given 
that we’re right where we want to be, we just need to keep unemployment around 4 percent, and 
that will keep inflation at 2 percent. 

So, 
in either case, regardless of which theory you believe, you come to the conclusion 
that we want unemployment to be roughly around 4 percent—or a little bit lower or a little bit 
higher, but roughly around 4 percent—over the next couple of years to achieve our dual-mandate 
goals. So I’m going to reinterpret u* for this to say: What’s the unemployment rate that we 
think we need to be at for the next several years to achieve our dual-mandate goals of maximum 
employment and price stability? 
No matter how we cut the data, I come to a number that’s roughly around 4 percent. I’ve 
actually written down 4.1 percent, which is the estimate that comes out of some recent research 
by four economists either currently at or previously at the New York Fed, so that’s what I’ve put 
in as my u*. 
I do think this brings up an issue about how we think about and describe what full 
employment means in the SEP and, more generally, in our communications. I want to bring this 
up also because of Stacey’s comment about rethinking the policy rule in the Tealbook. And it’s 
the way you describe—I know because I did peek at the memo we’re about to hear about—this 
idea of an asymmetric policy rule. I think we should go back to maybe asking why we act like 
there’s an asymmetry around u*. It’s probably more of the story I just told: That some people 
think that 4½ percent is the right number for the very long run unemployment rate. But that’s 
not really the right number to think about in terms of our dual-mandate goals over the medium 
term. I just think that’s a conversation that we should have, or the subcommittee on 
communications could include it in their framework discussions. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Thank you. Thanks, everyone. So, like most of you, I see 
accumulating evidence of further weakening in economic activity over the past few months. 

Al
so, like most of you, I see good reason to believe that real GDP growth will stabilize at a 
healthy pace, perhaps even above its trend rate. 
After a consistent sequence of growth markdowns over the past six months, however, we 
do need to remain alert to the possibility of a more significant slowdown. To “unpack” that a 
little bit: Although we so far have only limited hard data for 2019, what we do have suggests a 
significant further downgrade in growth for the first quarter from our expectations last fall and 
even since January. 
The staff slashed their estimate of Q1 growth from comfortably above trend in January to 
just 0.9 percent today. There’s a good case that the Q1 slowing here at home will prove 
transitory, because underlying fundamentals remain strong, including solid job growth, low 
unemployment, rising incomes and household wealth, and favorable levels of consumer and 
business sentiment. The weak payroll reading for February gives pause but, on balance, seems 
anomalous with broad kinds of strength in the household survey and very high reported job 
growth in January. 
If a bounceback is coming, it seems unlikely to be aided by the foreign sector, as growth 
abroad has continued to weaken. Readings on purchasing manager index (PMIs), industrial 
production, and trade signal continued softness in Asia and especially in Europe. The ECB has 
reversed course in the face of disappointing data after moving to begin a tightening cycle, and, as 
others noted, if Europe goes into recession, the ECB will have little policy space with which to 
react. 
The staff now expects U.S. GDP growth to be 1.8 percent this year, down 0.4 percentage 
points since January and down ¾ percentage points since September. I am slightly more 
optimistic, and many around the table seem to also have a base case with growth near or 

m
odestly above potential. If something close to this forecast comes to pass, the labor market 
should remain strong. This is a favorable real-side forecast, especially for this point in the 
expansion. 
The base case on the inflation side presents, for me, greater challenges from the 
standpoint of our objectives. Conditions did not push core inflation up to 2 percent on a 
consistent basis last year even with growth well above trend, unemployment well below 
estimates of the natural rate, and our policy rate still below most estimates of neutral. 
And in the latest CPI and PPI readings, we are seeing some signs of slippage in the 
inflation data despite a temporary boost from tariffs. Breakeven inflation rates implied by TIPS 
are still low, and readings on inflation expectations from the Michigan survey have remained 
near the low end of their historical range. With growth considerably slower this year than last in 
the base case, we may not convincingly achieve our inflation goal in 2019, and at that point we 
would be more than 10 years into an expansion with inflation below 2 percent. All of this leaves 
me concerned about our credibility on inflation and also a bit more sympathetic to the notion that 
inflation expectations may have edged below 2 percent. 
Anticipating tomorrow’s discussion, I’ll say a few words about the policy outlook. At 
last year’s FOMC meeting, the Tealbook forecast for 2018 was for growth of 2.9 percent, 
unemployment to drop to 3.5 percent by year-end, and core inflation of 1.9 percent and rising 
slowly. An unprecedented full-employment fiscal stimulus package was coming through the 
pipeline totaling $1.5 trillion between tax cuts and spending increases, and the target range for 
the federal funds rate was 1¼ to 1½ percent. 
In this context, it seemed eminently sensible, at least to me, to move the federal funds 
rate up closer to our estimates of neutral, and we did so over the course of the year. The situation 

to
day remains quite favorable from a dual-mandate perspective: core inflation near 2 percent 
and the labor market expected to stay strong and healthy. 
But from a policy perspective, the picture looks fundamentally different. Our interest 
rate is now in the broad range of neutral. Real GDP growth has dropped over the course of the 
past six months and is now projected to run near, or perhaps a bit above, the trend rate. Inflation 
appears likely to continue running below 2 percent—modestly so—and, while we can’t dismiss 
the risk of an upside breakout in inflation, the risk seems remote. 
In this context, I think our focus should be mainly on conducting policy so that this long 
expansion will be sustained. Our patient posture is designed to support that result, and I believe 
it has been vindicated by the data, contributing to the improvement in financial conditions since 
the beginning of the year and likely helping trim the risk of further deterioration in the outlook. 
With the outlook favorable and inflation muted, policy is in the right place for the conditions we 
see. Until the data show clear signs of breaking in one direction or the other, I think we would 
be wise to remain on hold with no presumption about the direction of our next policy move. 
It has always made sense to me that we would learn more about the level of the neutral 
rate as rates moved up closer to neutrality. The experience of the past year tentatively suggests 
to me that we are now close to that rate. The slowdown in real GDP growth since September 
may be a coincidence, but it’s also consistent with approaching neutrality, and the performance 
of inflation also points to policy being a bit tighter than I thought or a lower neutral rate. So I’ve 
lowered my estimate of neutral to 2½ percent. I’ve also lowered my estimate of the natural rate 
of unemployment to 4.0 percent, again, with both last year’s experience and the outlook in mind. 
And I have an explanation similar to the one John just went through, only shorter. [Laughter] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. You know, I have feelings. [Laughter] 

CHAI
R POWELL. I also thought that—John said it very well—the discussion of the 
asymmetric Taylor rule, or loss function, is a very interesting one to have, and there are different 
ways to parse it. So I think that’s a very important discussion to have. 
To wrap up, I will just mention that I have asked the subcommittee on communications to 
explore ways in which we can more effectively communicate the role of the interest rate 
projections in the SEP—the dot plot. I do see the dots, properly understood, as playing a useful 
role in our public communications. But I also see a real, and recurring, communications issue. 
At a time when we are all but eliminating forward-guidance language in the statement 
and also carefully telegraphing actual policy changes, the dots can become the only news after a 
meeting. Markets can read the dots as akin to a consensus plan, which has proven problematic at 
various inflection points. Convincing the markets to place less weight on the dots is like asking a 
bear to dance: You may be speaking to that rare dancing bear; more likely, you will find 
yourself on the menu. [Laughter] 
And, particularly for those of us who do feel strongly about the dots, this is a good time 
to think of ways to alleviate this problem. So, with that, let’s go right ahead with Thomas’s 
monetary policy briefing and then some Q&A. 
MR. LAUBACH.
6 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will be referring to the handout 
labeled “Material for the Briefing on Monetary Policy Alternatives.” 
With alternative B, the Committee would continue to point to global economic 
and financial developments and muted inflation pressures as the factors counseling a 
patient approach while it determines what future adjustments to the federal funds rate 
would be most consistent with the attainment of its goals. 
In the staff’s baseline outlook, the recent weakness in both domestic and foreign 
growth does not persist. Rather, starting in the second quarter, growth rates are 
expected to return to, or rise slightly above, their longer-run trend values. By 
contrast, as Stacey reported, neither headline nor core inflation is expected to reach 2 
percent this year. If this outlook comes to pass, a question that the Committee will 
6 The materials used by Mr. Laubach are appended to this transcript (appendix 6). 

c
onfront is whether and how to modify its communications about the future path of 
the federal funds rate in a context in which downside risks to economic activity 
appear to have diminished, but inflation continues to run below 2 percent. I will 
return to this question after discussing some analysis we recently presented in the 
Monetary Policy Strategies section of the Tealbook. 
As you know, for some time we have presented optimal policy simulations using 
a standard symmetric loss function as well as an asymmetric loss function, as 
highlighted by Vice Chair Williams. The upper-left panel may remind you either of 
March Madness or of the fact that I presented it a year ago. The panel illustrates the 
key difference between these two loss functions. The horizontal axis measures the 
gap between the unemployment rate and its natural rate, with negative values 
indicating that the unemployment rate is below its natural rate. The vertical axis 
measures the gap between inflation and its target value. For every point on a solid 
circle, the sum of the squared inflation gap and squared unemployment gap is the 
same. Hence, as discussed in the panel to the right, a policymaker who has a 
symmetric loss function would find combinations of the unemployment gap and the 
inflation gap on a given circle equivalent. Outcomes on circles closer to the center 
are preferred to those on wider circles. The dashed lines show outcomes that are 
equivalent from the perspective of an asymmetric loss function. The two loss 
functions value outcomes the same when the unemployment gap is positive, but, 
when the unemployment gap is negative, under the asymmetric loss function, only 
deviations from the inflation objective matter. Starting from the economy’s current 
position, illustrated by the hollow dot in the lower-left quadrant, if you valued 
outcomes according to the symmetric loss function, you would aim to bring the 
unemployment rate back to its natural rate, accepting the cost of continued further 
undershooting of inflation, as in the solid blue arrow. By contrast, the asymmetric 
loss function would call for returning inflation to 2 percent, even if doing so would 
push the unemployment rate further below the natural rate, as in the dashed arrow. 
The solid black lines in the middle three panels present the paths for the federal 
funds rate, the unemployment gap, and inflation under an economic outlook 
consistent with the March SEP medians. The dashed black lines present paths for 
these variables that are optimal from the perspective of the asymmetric loss function, 
taking as given the SEP median baseline and the FRB/US model’s view of monetary 
policy transmission. The red dotted lines present paths that are optimal from the 
standpoint of the symmetric loss function. Policy that is optimal under the symmetric 
loss function calls for a substantially higher federal funds rate path than the median 
path for appropriate policy because it is attempting to return the unemployment rate 
more rapidly to its natural rate. By contrast, the federal funds rate path that is optimal 
according to the asymmetric loss function almost coincides with the median path 
from the SEP. The prescriptions from the asymmetric Taylor rule using your current 
SEP submissions, presented by Marcel earlier, are a close cousin of optimal policy 
under an asymmetric loss function. In sum, at this time your projections for 
appropriate policy seem to be reasonably closely approximated by asymmetric 
preferences of this kind. 

W
hy might policymakers choose policies that are desirable from the perspective 
of an asymmetric loss function? As discussed in the lower-left panel, an obvious 
possibility is that they fundamentally agree with the notion that, as long as no adverse 
inflation developments arise, there are no intrinsic costs associated with a tight labor 
market, and there might even be benefits, such as those examined in the recent 
research by President Daly, Bill Wascher, and former Board colleagues. Because any 
adverse side effects of high resource utilization may materialize only gradually, such 
an evaluation must take an appropriately long view. The conventional argument 
against such asymmetric policy behavior is that it would result in an upward bias to 
inflation outcomes, resulting in an above-target rate of inflation, on average, without 
any improvement in the average level of employment. 
What was a bug in a world in which the effective lower bound was an 
afterthought, however, may become a feature in an environment, like that seen both 
here and abroad in recent years, in which the effective lower bound figures 
prominently. In particular, the upward bias imparted to inflation that results from 
setting the policy rate in a way that is desirable from the asymmetric loss function’s 
perspective could largely or entirely offset the downward bias that might result from 
policy being frequently constrained by the effective lower bound. In fact, even a 
policymaker whose preferences are better described by the symmetric loss function 
might, in a low-r* world, find it attractive to choose policy according to an 
asymmetric loss function. 
This brings me back to my initial question of how you might wish to 
communicate about the future path of the federal funds rate, should downside risks to 
economic activity diminish but inflation continue to run a little below 2 percent. In 
current circumstances, a policymaker with asymmetric preferences will aim to move 
inflation up to 2 percent more rapidly because this policymaker will not lean against 
the currently high level of resource utilization, in contrast to a policymaker with 
symmetric preferences. As noted in the lower-right panel, you may therefore wish to 
communicate, over time, that, as long as inflation and inflation expectations do not 
rise notably above 2 percent and no signs of other imbalances emerge, a strengthening 
in the outlook or the dissipation of downside risks by themselves would not alter your 
patient posture. Such communications would be particularly attractive if you were 
concerned that inflation continuing to run below your objective might risk eroding 
longer-run inflation expectations. 
An important caveat to keep in mind, of course, is that, in all of these simulations, 
the public is assumed to understand the policymakers’ greater tolerance for letting 
inflation run above 2 percent for a while. In particular, the public understands both 
the upside bias imparted to inflation from asymmetric behavior and the downside bias 
from the proximity to the lower bound. Clear communications about policymakers’ 
intentions would seem to be an important prerequisite for successfully managing such 
temporary inflation overshoots. A lack of clarity, by contrast, might confuse the 
public into thinking that policymakers’ inflation goal has moved up. 

T
hank you, Mr. Chairman. That completes my prepared remarks. The January 
statement and the draft alternatives are shown on pages 2 to 9 of the handout. I will 
be happy to take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Questions for Thomas? President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Very interesting presentation. My own staff has been noting that 
we seem to actually be voting more like an asymmetric loss function. The challenge is, in 
January, we didn’t adopt a framework that has an asymmetric loss function. 
So the first question is, what do you think is the reputational risk of adopting a 
framework in January that doesn’t have an asymmetric loss function and then having the staff 
modeling us as an asymmetric loss function three months later? It strikes me that I would prefer 
Vice Chair Williams’s explanation to an asymmetric loss function. That seems like a 
fundamental change in the framework, and we should probably change our framework first and 
then follow it, if we do have a framework that we want to change. It seems like we’re putting the 
cart a little bit before the horse, but I’d be interested in your reaction to that. 
And then I have a second question: How do you think financial stability fits into your 
discussion? One of the reasons for thinking about a symmetric loss function is having periods of 
low equilibrium interest rates that continue for long periods of time. President Kaplan talked a 
little bit about more leverage in the economy and some of the risks that go with that. So one of 
the reasons for being worried about pushing labor markets very tight is not just that—there are 
some good things to a tight labor market—but, if you think financial stability risks go up during 
that environment, that would be one of the reasons you’d model it that way. There’s no 
discussion of financial stability here, and there’s no mention of financial stability in our 
framework. Do you think that is a significant problem that needs to be integrated if we decided 
to go down this path? Both of these topics are obviously much bigger than a five-minute 
discussion, but I’ll throw that out anyway. 

M
R. LAUBACH. I will take a first crack. In fact, I hope that maybe some of these 
topics will resurface later in the year when you have discussions around the policy framework 
more generally. 
First of all, I want to be clear. The attempt here was not to read minds and reverse 
engineer. I tried to be very careful in simply saying, “Look. These two paths look similar.” I 
did not try to impute that, therefore, you must hold asymmetric preferences. It simply happens 
that right now they lead to similar paths. 
In terms of the framework, what I would say is that, the way that I read the consensus 
statement, you did not in January adopt a framework that I would read as consistent with a form 
of makeup strategy. I see a bit of difference between asymmetric policy preferences and a 
makeup strategy. In particular, what I think the consensus statement arguably is a little broader 
about is in describing how the Committee reconciles tradeoffs, because, if you read the balanced-
approach paragraph, that’s awfully wide. And I don’t see right now a sharp contrast between 
what is written there and the behavior described by this asymmetric loss function, because it has 
all of these words in it—I don’t have them right now in front of me—about taking into 
consideration the different time periods that it may take to eliminate deviations from the goals. 
So I think there’s a fair amount of flexibility there. Nonetheless, again, this was not intended to 
say “Oh, now I’ve discovered what you truly think.” This was not it. 
In terms of financial stability, I did mention in passing that you need to evaluate the 
consequences of such behavior over a sufficiently long time period, right? I mean, for example, 
you might say, “Well, right now this looks very appealing,” but, ultimately, you’ll get a whole 
lot more inflation overshoot than you might have bargained for. So you need to take an 

a
ppropriately long horizon here. And the same, I think, is true for financial stability 
consequences, that you want to think about whether there is ultimately a price to pay. 
In fact, one more general point is that I think the asymmetric preferences add yet another 
element to the discussion that makes, in technical terms, certainty equivalence break down, 
because you now have a model that has a lower-bound constraint. That is one nonlinearity. 
Financial stability considerations may induce yet another nonlinearity, so risk-management 
considerations will loom very large in this framework, right? 
And it cuts both ways. On the one hand, you may want to guard against the erosion of 
inflation expectations, because you’re spending too much time at the lower bound with low 
inflation outcomes. On the other hand, you may have a different mechanism in the background 
here that says “But at the same time, there’s also a probability of future financial stability risks 
going up.” So, I think, in a richer framework, one would have to model probably all of these 
things. And it’s right that, in the FRB/US model for example, we don’t have these financial 
stability risks building in these simulations. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Yes. I also thought this was very interesting. I had, I think, some 
similar questions. In particular, on financial stability, if I look at the past few cycles, I really 
have a hard time telling an inflation story. It looks like the Committee was responding to 
financial imbalances, and we don’t tend to incorporate that into our monetary policy framework, 
but I think we probably need to work a little bit harder at that. 
The second thing that I’d just be interested in, as Stacey takes onboard a different 
monetary policy function into the Tealbook, I can’t help but wonder, doesn’t that in turn affect 

the
 projection that you have for activity? You’ve been very, very strong in terms of your 
projections for activity with a big miss on the federal funds rate path, and I’d be quite interested 
in how we’re going to reconcile these two things, because you do have more underlying 
momentum than perhaps is in some of the SEP forecasts with a much lower rate path. 
And then the third thing I wonder is, it looks to me like we’re inflation targeting in three 
of the four quadrants. Haven’t we abandoned the dual mandate in three of the four quadrants? 
Isn’t that essentially what this is equivalent to? And how should we think about that? 
MR. LAUBACH. Under the asymmetric loss function? 
MS. BRAINARD. Yes. 
MR. LAUBACH. I think in the two left quadrants you are just trying to get inflation to 
target, because you are indifferent about any of the unemployment rate levels there, right? 
That’s literally what this loss function says. You could think of a more generalized version 
that’s perhaps not quite as radical where these lines are not literally going flat all the way to the 
left, but at some point they bend down so that you have something a little bit more like a range 
for the natural unemployment rate or a range for a normal unemployment rate where you are 
simply uncertain, and you say, “I’m indifferent between any of these, but surely when the 
unemployment rate hits 2 percent, this is not a good outcome.” So then you again start pushing 
up the unemployment rate. But, yes, you would have a certain range where basically you’re 
saying, “All these unemployment rates are fine. I’m not going to respond to those. I’m only 
going to respond to inflation.” 
MS. TEVLIN. May I address the second one? 
MS. BRAINARD. Yes. 

M
S. TEVLIN. So you’re right. The fact that we have greater tailwinds and momentum 
in our forecast has been sort of masked by our very high federal funds rate over the past year or 
so or longer. When we lower the federal funds rate, if we left everything else the same, we 
would have a much stronger forecast. 
So we are going to take the opportunity to look at a number of aspects of our forecast that 
we would like to investigate, but I would guess we will end up with a stronger forecast. At the 
moment, we have a forecast that’s lower than the median SEP number. So we would be moving 
closer to you, maybe above—probably above—but we’re going to look at the whole pattern of 
the forecast and reevaluate a number of things. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Thanks. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I think I have a question in here, but mostly I am just trying to understand, 
because there are many things on the table. And, like President Rosengren and Vice Chair 
Williams, I am trying to understand. It looks like there is a technology—an asymmetric loss 
function—that we know how to use, that we can apply, and that helps us with our models and 
figuring it out. 
But I know when I think of it, I’m not adopting asymmetric loss function mentality. I am 
using what Vice Chair Williams described. I think about “What’s the rate of unemployment, the 
u*, we need to achieve in order to get to the inflation part of our dual mandate?” 
The more traditional way to describe that would be a time-varying u*, but that’s very 
hard to get. And so I just think in these discussions, even in the SEP when I’m asked to write 
down a longer-run rate of unemployment, it generates this idea that you want something with a 
demographic adjustment, and we’re talking about something quite different. 

S
o I think there’s a lot of things on the table about: How do we ask the question in the 
SEP? What’s the object that we’re trying to find? How do we describe it to the public? And 
then, what technology do we have? Because we use standard models that are already constructed 
to produce estimates we can understand. 
So I felt it was a little muddied, because we’re talking about three different goals of what 
we’re trying to accomplish all in the same conversation, and I don’t think we have to adopt an 
asymmetric loss function in order to achieve what we’re trying to do. You could just write down 
4 percent for u* and say, “That’s it”—or you could pin it on inflation expectations. Either way, 
you would accomplish exactly the same thing. So the question I have is: Do you agree with 
that? Or do you want me to adopt asymmetric loss functions? 
MR. LAUBACH. Let me simply say, number one, I sympathize very much with the 
sentiment. I, too, have been scratching my head increasingly about what the longer-run 
unemployment rate actually is that you are reporting in the SEP. And I think that’s—well, I 
don’t have assignments to give to the subcommittee on communications. [Laughter.] 
But I think the gist of this was not that I wanted to advocate that you should think 
seriously about subscribing to an asymmetric loss function. I think it is one way of thinking 
about a world in which the lower bound is frequently binding, in which you may be concerned 
about a downward bias to inflation that then becomes ingrained through inflation expectations 
via that mechanism. In that world, you can, in times like now, afford the luxury to not press too 
hard against what appears to be tight resource utilization, and that makes it appear as if you are 
acting as if you had asymmetric preferences. 
Again, I am looking in part to your paper as saying that there are benefits of tolerating for 
a while such a strong labor market. And in this world in which you are concerned about a 

dow
nward bias to inflation and inflation expectations, actually, that may be just the right thing to 
do. In this sense, of course, there is a certain similarity to other makeup-type strategies—
namely, it says that it’s basically okay if you are tolerating some inflation overshoot in a period 
like this, because in other times you will get the undershoot because you are at the lower bound. 
MS. DALY. May I add one more thing to this? There is another way to think about our 
paper, though. The way we did this exercise is that we used a natural rate of unemployment that 
is computed in the way we typically think of it—a demographically adjusted one. So there is a 
gap, and we use that gap to describe a hot economy. 
But if we adopted this strategy that Vice Chair Williams just described—you just lower 
your u* in these periods to achieve your inflation goals—you would essentially accomplish 
exactly the same things as described in our paper. You would let the expansion persist because 
you wouldn’t get too agitated that you had a big unemployment gap, and you would accomplish 
the goals of getting the marginalized workers back in and working. 
So I don’t think we actually would disrupt the findings of our paper if we took the 
strategy just described, because it would essentially amount to the same thing. It’s arithmetic in 
the end. It’s just about how you label it. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. A very stimulating presentation. I’m not as quick a study as I used to 
be, so this may sound obvious. The first point, though, is that the bullet points are very 
suggestive that this might result in upward inflation bias, and this might offset downward bias. 
But as I see the way you sketched it out on page 1 with the objective function, it doesn’t 
solve the time-consistency problem, in the sense that, every period, you’d like to get back to your 

i
nflation target. And so unless you have a commitment technology that is bequeathed to you, 
having this loss function doesn’t solve the Kydland-Prescott problem of a makeup strategy. 
MR. LAUBACH. That’s right. It’s under the assumption of a no-commitment 
technology that it produces, over time, an upward inflation bias, if nothing else happened. So if 
you had the asymmetric loss function but there was no lower bound constraint, then this loss 
function would lead you exactly into the standard Kydland-Prescott problem of having above-
target average inflation. That’s the equilibrium in which you end up. It is precisely balancing 
this upward inflation bias against a downward inflation bias from the zero lower bound that 
basically gets you this. 
MR. CLARIDA. Okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. Other comments? President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I like this very much, and we’ve talked 
about it before. I think this is a good description of what is actually happening at the Committee, 
so I think we should explore this further. 
I do think it’s consistent with our long-run statement. The long-run statement says that 
we want the inflation part of the objective to be symmetric, but it’s noncommittal on the other 
part of the objective. So I think it would be interpretable as being consistent with our long-run 
policy statement. 
By the way, you could have asymmetry on both dimensions, and you could say, “I don’t 
care, as long as inflation is below 2 percent and unemployment is below the natural rate.” Then 
you’d have a complete range of “I don’t care” if you wanted to do it that way. And I think, 
historically, in macroeconomics, some behavior has been like that. As long as inflation is low 
and unemployment is low, we don’t have to do anything, or we don’t care, but there is a range of 

i
naction there. This only has the range of inaction on the one dimension—the unemployment 
dimension, when unemployment is particularly low. 
One of the things I have been frustrated with in the discussion here at the table over the 
past couple of years is that we have been arguably almost hitting our inflation target, but 
unemployment went so low, then the staff was calling for big rises in interest rates, because we 
had to get unemployment up 80 basis points to some conception of an uncertain natural rate. 
And I wasn’t really sure that that was a really good description of what we needed to be doing in 
this economy. I think this is very much capturing the spirit of what we need to do here, and it is 
worthy of further exploration. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me just add, I also think this is very 
positive, so thank you very much. I am very supportive. 
I think I’ve had two major quibbles with the Tealbook. One was the policy rate path, 
which you’re addressing here. The second was the assessment of slack. For me, slack is not just 
in the unemployment rate. There is also labor force participation (LFP) slack—an LFP gap, so to 
speak. I’m just curious, would an LFP gap be another way of explaining this? Could one have a 
symmetric view of our dual mandate but just think that there is more slack in the labor market 
that’s not captured in u relative to u*? 
MR. LAUBACH. So, narrowly, I should say the reason why I am using the 
unemployment gap is simply because that’s the one thing that we can construct from your SEPs. 
MR. KASHKARI. Yes. 

M
R. LAUBACH. But we cannot construct from your SEPs an output gap. Otherwise, an 
output gap that would include many more margins, including potentially a participation gap, 
would be preferable. 
MR. KASHKARI. It’s just that what President Daly said resonated with me. When I go 
through this with my staff, I don’t think to myself—I mean, maybe I’m implicitly doing this—I 
don’t think to myself, “I don’t care if the labor market gets overly tight.” I just think there is 
more slack in the labor market, and it’s not captured in the unemployment rate. But if this is an 
approximation getting us there, then I’m comfortable with it. I just wanted to put it out there that 
there are other ways of getting to the same result other than just literally adopting an asymmetric 
loss function. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. I found this a great discussion. I am particularly interested in this idea 
that Vice Chairman Williams mentioned about the lower Phillips curve intercept and 
understanding that better. I gather what you’re saying is, there will be a point at which inflation 
might finally take off, it just may be at a lower intercept. 
The comment I would make—which, I guess, I’m foreshadowing for future meetings—is 
that there is the tradeoff between inflation and unemployment, and a third criterion, which I think 
is what President Rosengren mentioned: financial stability. I think, increasingly, you will hear 
me and maybe others discuss this. Because my fear is, as we’re fighting this battle, we’re 
increasingly creating what I’d call a vice that is gripping us—which is debt building up, building 
up, building up, building up. And it will continue to build up as we fight between unemployment 
and inflation to the point where I think that debt buildup itself will become enough of an excess 

t
hat we become—I don’t know what the word is—slowdown intolerant, or much more slowdown 
intolerant. I think President George talked about it. 
I think this is going to have to increasingly be part of what will have to be a three-party 
debate, not a two-party debate. I don’t have the answers, but I’m starting increasingly to worry 
about it, and the best way I can describe it is this vice is growing. Again, it’s not a problem of 
the lenders being leveraged; it’s unlike ’08. It’s a problem with the borrowers being leveraged, 
and I’m increasingly concerned about this excess imbalance building. And I want to make sure, 
in this debate, we don’t lose sight of that. 
CHAIR POWELL. Two-hander. 
MR. BULLARD. Can I just weigh in on this? 
CHAIR POWELL. Sure. 
MR. BULLARD. I think President Kaplan and others bring up a great point. I mean, 
financial stability is an important concern. There is no question about it. My view would be, 
that’s not in these models. So when we’re looking at the models, they are talking about real 
economy versus inflation, and we want to think about that part clearly. We’re going to have to 
come in with judgmental adjustment—there is no question—on the financial stability part. 
And I’m very sympathetic to the idea that the most recent recessions have not been 
because of excessive inflation. They have been because of some kind of asset bubble, and we’ve 
had to think about that and weigh whether we want to lean against that. I don’t think it’s very 
hopeful to think we’re going to get that into our models in a coherent way, so it’s going to have 
to be a separate judgment. And I agree that we can’t lose sight of it. I totally agree. 
MR. KAPLAN. I’m not commenting as much on the model as much as getting it as a 
criterion into the discussion. 

M
R. BULLARD. Definitely. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this has been a fascinating discussion. 
I agree with many of the comments that Vice Chairman Williams made. I think there’s a lot 
that’s artful in where we are with unemployment being low and trying to discern whether it’s the 
natural rate at the same time that inflation expectations are low. 
So I think this gets us to think about different types of policies than what we would get 
from just Taylor rules and things like that. I really applaud the staff looking at different policy 
rules. I think that’s going to be quite a challenge, because it’s already been pointed out that 
you’ve got momentum for the economy that’s premised on a certain policy rate path. Now, 
you’re going to put a different policy rate path there, and so, logically, there are going to be 
implications there, but I think that’s great. 
I didn’t really feel the need to say that, but as we talk more about financial stability, I 
wanted to weigh in that this is a very difficult subject for the FOMC to talk about, at least that’s 
my opinion. I am more sympathetic to thinking about financial stability issues when we’re at the 
zero lower bound and we’re pursuing very aggressive monetary policies, because there’s 
something else really clogging things up and we have to do more. 
We’re now at a funds rate target range of 2¼ to 2½ percent. We think that we might be 
at the natural rate. So it’s not obvious that we’re goosing financial conditions with our monetary 
policies. There could be other reasons for why that is, but if we thought that when the funds rate 
was close to zero and it might be too much to think of supervisory policies to do more in order to 
control that—well, we’re in a more normal environment. 

S
o I think the supervisory policies and other things have to be thought about very 
carefully. And there is the countercyclical capital tool for a cyclical point and other things, 
which takes us pretty far afield from FOMC deliberations, but if we’re going to bring it all in, it 
has to be a pretty full discussion. So, thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thanks. I just want to go back to the asymmetric loss function for a 
moment. So I guess another explanation of the SEP paths is that we’ve been trying to figure out 
what u* is. If there’s uncertainty about u*, you come in and you let the data tell you, and you 
could get behavior that might resemble this asymmetric loss function because it’s learning, right? 
We’re trying to learn what u* is. 
But what that means is that if you were to say, “We’re going to adopt this asymmetric 
loss function,” our behavior would be different. So you have to think a little bit harder than just 
changing the loss function because if our underlying behavior changed under a different loss 
function you wouldn’t end up getting the same economic outcomes. This endogeneity means 
that I would just want us to be cautious about thinking that you could just change the loss 
function. I guess it’s a Lucas critique kind of thing. I think more of this has been learning as we 
go along. We don’t see inflation rising. That’s informing us that something about our estimate 
of u* may be different. 
So maybe a path forward would be, “This is a great thing. You basically took this 
asymmetric loss function to show you can replicate.” There may be other things that you could 
do, in terms of a learning model, that would keep the symmetric loss function, but then replicate, 
and maybe other explanations for trying to explain how we behave. 

T
he other thing—I thought that the symmetric loss function came out of theory that 
suggested that it actually can replicate better outcomes and welfare-improving outcomes. So 
that’s the other thing to think about. It’s not just a matter of just taking your model and plugging 
in a different loss function. There’s a fundamental there that that symmetric loss function comes 
out of, and I think that that should also be pointed out as you go forward in this work. So thanks. 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Maybe I will have the last—go ahead, Jim. 
MR. BULLARD. I just have one separate question about language in alternative B, 
which I think is appropriate to bring up today. Is that okay? 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes. 
MR. BULLARD. In paragraph 2 of alternative B, we still refer to financial 
developments—“In light of global economic and financial developments”—and I just wanted to 
ask Thomas, what’s the logic behind leaving that in? I think a lot of people might look at that 
and say, “Well, financial conditions have improved, at least from the U.S. perspective.” So 
should the FOMC still be citing that as a rationale in this statement? 
MR. LAUBACH. In my interpretation, global economic and financial developments is a 
pretty broad tent. “Global” can include both in the United States and elsewhere. “Economic and 
financial” includes obviously a lot, and just by listening to the previous go-round, it seemed to 
me that, for a number of you, the slowdown in China and, in particular, in Europe seems to loom 
fairly large, and that there may be downside risks emanating from that. 
So I think that’s one reason why you may find it still appropriate to point to that, even 
though, say, financial conditions themselves, in particular in the United States, now look more 
favorable. The financial data look better, but the hard economic data actually have surprised 
over the intermeeting period to the downside. 

MR
. KAMIN. I would add that issues like Brexit and Italian debt, et cetera, have a very 
important financial component to them. 
MR. BULLARD. Would a global financial conditions index have shown improvement 
over the intermeeting period? 
MR. KAMIN. Well, yes. Our measures of financial stress abroad have improved. So, in 
some sense, what you would be referencing here are issues that have a very strong financial 
component to them. Brexit is a risk that has a tremendous financial component in it. Similarly, 
Italian debt issues pose financial risks. Indeed, over the intermeeting period, there has been an 
improvement in the tone of financial markets. So stress levels, in that sense, have gone down, 
but the risks and issues that are involved have not. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I agree with everything that Steve said. I also think that this 
is the sentence that sets up the patient approach to policy. And I think of this as going back to 
September—financial conditions even in the United States have tightened since September. 
We’ve seen it get much worse. We’ve seen it get a bit better. I would argue that much of the 
“getting better” was due to the “patient” policy approach. So I think it is still a background. It’s 
a backdrop to where the global and financial conditions are, and, as Steve said, there’s quite a bit 
of uncertainty around these as well. 
CHAIR POWELL. I want to go back. I was just about to offer a comment on the far 
more interesting question we were still discussing. I see it as there are three candidate 
explanations for the Committee’s behavior, and I think that the asymmetric loss function is the 
least satisfactory of them. For one thing, it’s certainly not how I think about it. It’s not that 

w
e’re literally indifferent to unemployment, no matter how far below u* it goes. I don’t think 
that’s the right way to think about it. 
I think the middle explanation is the inflation expectations way to think about it. But the 
idea there is that you’re running a hot economy, and I’m not sure that’s right either. 
I really do think the best of these three is to say, as I think Mary said first and others said, 
that the longer-run u* concept really has little policy relevance today, and that there’s a u* that’s 
operative in today’s environment is just lower. That’s a much better way to think about it. 
That’s a better way to explain it to the public. Anyway, I wanted to just add that, of the three, I 
think, that’s the most satisfactory. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. And if I can double— 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. If you read our long-run goals and policy strategy, we 
actually describe maximum employment as being the maximum employment that’s consistent 
with our 2 percent inflation goal. So I think, in a way, we painted ourselves into our corner by 
talking about the long-run natural rate of unemployment, because if you read the words we say in 
our long-run goals, we actually describe it correctly. But then we want to hang a number on it, 
and then we have this long-run u*. So I agree with the way you said it, and it’s the way I have 
described it, too. But we need to think about how we put that in documents, because I don’t 
think we’re being inconsistent. I think we’re actually doing exactly what our mandate goals are. 
We’re struggling a little bit about how to take this economic concept to a long-run natural rate of 
unemployment and link it to this issue. 
CHAIR POWELL. It’s a problem that we’re writing down this number that’s in the 
mid-4s, which suggests to anyone who’s paying attention that we’ve really got to get 

une
mployment up, which to me is just not right in a world where there’s no inflation. We 
obviously know we don’t know anything beyond the forecast period, if indeed we know anything 
beyond the next week. So I think it’s a problem to have that number as the one longer-run 
unemployment rate u* that we write down. I think it’s a problem. I do. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Well, luckily, there’s a subcommittee. [Laughter] 
MR. CLARIDA. I think that if you look at the Committee’s evolution on u*, it’s not as 
though u* stayed constant and we decided to ignore it—u* has drifted down by 150 basis points, 
more or less. 
CHAIR POWELL. It is less. 
MR. CLARIDA. So, as Loretta said, we have learned. I’ve learned in the six months 
here. I’ve already marked it down once. I’ll mark it down again in June. We see the labor 
market data and learn; that’s how I think about it. 
MS. DALY. But John—Vice Chair Williams—it is so hard for me to remember that. 
[Laughter] Not that I don’t admire it. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I believe it. 
MS. DALY. But the way you described it, if the question was posed to us that way, we 
would accomplish the learning that President Mester described. We would accomplish the 
description for communications you just described. We’d be asking ourselves to write down the 
u* that we think is consistent with achieving our inflation target. 
It would be a quicker process of getting that to come down, I think, because there’s some 
stickiness when you’re trying to use these demographically-adjusted u* models. I think that 
would be something to consider, departing from that language when we’re asked about it and 
moving toward the language we actually hold ourselves to in the documents. 

CHAI
R POWELL. Okay. Anything else before we break? [No response] Thanks very 
much. We’ll get together tomorrow morning at 9:00, and we will gather in the elegant West 
Court Café at 5:00. Thanks very much, everyone. 
[Meeting recessed] 

Ma
rch 20 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. After the meeting yesterday, I asked that 
the Balance Sheet Normalization Principles and Plans be revised to incorporate a taper that 
would involve only one step, from $30 billion down to $15 billion, which would begin in May. 
I’m going to ask Simon and Lorie to say a few words about the implications of that. 
MR. POTTER.7 Thank you, Mr. Chair. We have a little briefing note here. It’s called 
“Material for Briefing on Balance Sheet Normalization Principles and Plans”—not the press 
release. In this handout, we show the no-taper option versus the two taper options. The one that 
you’ve seen previously is the April one. Remember, that tapers down in April to $20 billion for 
the cap, and then in July, it goes to $10 billion. The May taper, as the Chairman just pointed out, 
starts in May, and it’s fixed at $15 billion for the cap. 
The goal of both of these is to slow down the descent of reserves. We’ve been trying to 
land something for a while. We’re not quite sure where the landing point is. And I think, as 
we’ve thought about it, we quite like slowing down as we get closer to that landing point. This is 
a small amount of trying to slow down, but it’s a reasonable amount to do. The two taper 
options slow down exactly the same amount in Q2. The April taper slows down a little bit more 
in the third quarter. But, of course, we have plenty of time to look at things before the third 
quarter comes. So, in effect, they have the same option value for you if we see anything 
different. And I think both of them more smoothly transition to the point that we roll over all 
Treasury security holdings, and that we start reinvesting the MBS paydowns into Treasury 
securities. 
7 The materials used by Mr. Potter are appended to this transcript (appendixes 7, 8, and 9). 

S
o if you decided that this was the approach that you would like to take, we would, along 
with the press release that you would have, release a Desk statement, which would outline to the 
public what this taper would look like. And the example we gave is the May taper. 
We’d also include in the last part of that statement—and that’s the third thing you have 
here—a notice to the public that in May, we will update on the details of how we would reinvest 
the agency paydowns into Treasury securities starting in October. I’m happy to take any 
questions on this, as is Lorie. 
CHAIR POWELL. Questions for Simon? [No response] One idea was to address the 
concern that was raised about immediately tapering. Really, the taper begins effectively at the 
next FOMC meeting, which ends on May 1. 
Also, it’s important, I think, to hear Simon say that they think this helps them. I don’t 
think that came out well yesterday. This actually helps more gradually and carefully approach 
the level of reserve demand, which we are highly uncertain about. 
So, no questions or comments? [No response] Then I guess I would ask for a show of 
hands of all of those who can support releasing this statement today. [Show of hands] Any 
opposed or abstentions? [No response] Okay. Thanks very much. 
We’ll go straight into our policy go-round, and we’ll begin with President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. I 
appreciate the rewrite of the first paragraph, which now more appropriately conveys the 
weakness in economic data that have been received so far in the first quarter. A pause in 
tightening is justified by the risk that the weaker data we have seen this quarter may be more 
persistent than we are currently expecting. In particular, I continue to worry about global 
economic growth being weaker than my forecast. However, my modal forecast implies further 

tig
htening of labor markets, with inflation rising above target over the forecast horizon. If the 
economy unfolds along the lines of my forecast, rate increases will pause but not stop. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. I support alternative B as written. It does 
make sense to acknowledge that inflation compensation remained low and to continue to state 
that survey-based measures of inflation are little changed. The “little changed” language, while 
technically correct, does obscure the fact that not only market, but also prominent survey 
measures such as Michigan, while stable, are fluctuating in ranges somewhat below those that 
prevailed before the Global Financial Crisis or even as recently as the “boom times” of 2012. As 
I’ve indicated at previous meetings and in public remarks, this evidence, to me, suggests that 
inflation pressures are not only muted, as we state in paragraph 2, but measures of expected 
inflation are also at the lower end of a range that I would consider to be consistent with our 
price-stability objective. 
In regard to the way forward for the economy and monetary policy, I would make three 
points. First, in this SEP, the median projection of long-run u* has again declined. It is now at 
4.3 percent. And seven participants, including me, project a long-run u* of 4.2 percent or lower. 
Over the past 12 months, the unemployment rate has averaged 3.9 percent and, as recently as 
January, stood at 4 percent. So at present, we face an inflation gap measured by core PCE that is 
modestly negative and an output gap that is modestly positive. 
If I apply original Taylor rule weights to my 2019 projections for core PCE inflation, the 
unemployment rate, and r*, I get a policy rate roughly equal to the 2.5 percent level that defines 
the lower end of our estimated range for long-run nominal r*. And, as I mentioned yesterday, in 

my
 projections, I see growth falling somewhat below my estimate of trend and thus project a 
gradual rise in the unemployment rate toward u*. 
Second, as we all appreciate, monetary policy needs to be forward looking and can be 
subject to long and variable lags. An important judgment the Committee will need to make in 
the months and years ahead is how best to strike the proper balance among three compelling 
realities when it comes to achieving and maintaining our dual-mandate objectives. The first 
reality is the inclination to be preemptive in a world of long and variable lags. The second 
reality is the need to consult models to inform the basis for any preemptive move. And the third 
reality is the responsibility to recognize that the benefits of a preemptive move to raise rates 
based on a model that turns out to be correct must be balanced against the cost to the economy of 
a preemptive move to raise rates based on a model that turns out to be wrong. 
Speaking for myself, this suggests that close attention should be paid to market- and 
survey-based measures of expected inflation, and the yield curve slope, as reality checks against 
inflation predictions from historically estimated Phillips curve or calibrated DSGE models. At a 
minimum, I would apply a cost–benefit calculation to any recommendation to raise rates solely 
based on a model’s prediction, without supporting evidence of upside inflation pressure from 
surveys or financial market data. 
Now, of course, initial conditions are relevant in striking this balance. If core inflation 
had for some time been, and today was, north of 3 percent, I would likely spend little or no time 
on the above calculations before supporting a rate hike. Or if core inflation had been below 
1 percent for some time, this would be, obviously, a less relevant consideration. 
Third—and I’ll finish here—as I mentioned yesterday, I believe we would be well served 
to resist the temptation to assume that, once any uncertainty about global economic and financial 

de
velopments is resolved, we’ll essentially face two possible scenarios for the economy: very 
strong real growth and rising inflation, or very weak growth and falling inflation. There’s a third 
scenario, which, to me, is very plausible and is essentially some version of the Tealbook 
baseline: roughly trend growth with stable inflation that is just below 2 percent. If the economy 
were to proceed according to this scenario, these considerations suggest, at least to me, that the 
case for a rate hike this year would not be evident. But, of course, the data can and may change, 
including evidence about u*, r*, and expected inflation. And if they do change, then my 
preferred path would change. But I think the above considerations would be relevant. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the policy action in alternative B and 
have no comment on the proposed statement language. 
On the basis of my outlook and the potential for stronger growth and more pressure on 
labor markets, I continue to think that one additional 25 basis point increase in the funds rate 
target this year will be appropriate. However, as the proposed statement language emphasizes, 
given all of the current crosscurrents and little sign that undesirably higher inflation will emerge, 
the Committee does not need to be locked into anything in the near term. 
We really won’t know for a while if the recent indications of slower growth are transitory 
or a more permanent feature of the landscape. So I think it is wise to remain flexible—as one of 
my directors put it, to have an athletic posture. For that reason, I think that patience is the 
appropriate risk-management emphasis to have at this juncture. But I would also stress in 
communications that because policy decisions remain highly data dependent, patience does not 
equate to no action for the rest of this year. 

Wh
ile my position that patience is not the same as expecting zero rate increases is what 
many believe—witness the result of the primary dealers’ survey—that view is far from universal. 
The SEP funds rate path could be interpreted as a sign that we have definitively moved to the 
sidelines for this year. When polled about their interpretation of “patient,” a sizable minority of 
my directors expressed exactly that view, and that was without seeing the dot plots. In my own 
view, as I said, another rate increase could be justified if my forecast of stronger growth 
materializes. I do not want to preclude this possibility, and I fear that the SEP in isolation will be 
taken as saying the bar is now set exceptionally high with respect to another rate adjustment in 
2019. If that’s the consensus, then I suppose that’s okay. But I’m not there right now, and I 
hope that our communications keep our options open to the greatest extent possible. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B. The outlook is still 
highly uncertain, and keeping policy on hold is clearly the right thing to do today. However, 
thinking about the medium-term trajectory of monetary policy continues to be quite challenging. 
After quite a bit of thought, I decided that a shallower, more accommodative policy rate 
trajectory was appropriate. I see two reasons for that. First, some of the recent data have been 
quite soft. Most likely, this is just a temporary lull, and real GDP growth will pick up to trend 
after the first quarter. But it seems prudent to pause long enough to assess just how strong the 
headwinds currently hitting the economy really are. 
Second, even after assuming trend growth resumes in the second quarter, I needed to 
mark down my 2019 growth outlook substantially. With my old policy rate path, that weaker, 
near-term outlook would have implied inflation just barely getting to 2 percent by 2021. And 

ev
en that seemed like a close call, given that inflation expectations seem to be stuck below our 
target. I think we should be aiming for inflation to modestly overshoot 2 percent later in the 
projection period. I view such overshooting as key to the credibility of symmetry in our inflation 
target, particularly given the prolonged period we’ve undershot 2 percent. 
So, in the end, I judged that my policy rate path needed to be much shallower than in the 
December SEP. I settled on no changes in the funds rate target in 2019, a single increase in 
2020, and another one in 2021. 
I still see the fundamentals of the U.S. economy as strong, but the headwinds buffeting 
the economy now seem more persistent and argue for lower rates. Sluggishness in domestic 
demand and tighter financial conditions suggest short-run r* has dropped below its long-run 
level. Our more sophisticated DSGE model analysis supports this conclusion and sees some 
persistence to the shocks reducing short-run r*. 
In addition, the challenges to global growth appear to be broader and deeper than I 
thought in December. And I am concerned that the continued indecision over Brexit, trade, and 
tariff brinkmanship as well as a variety of political issues worldwide will take an even larger toll 
on household and business sentiment and spending in the period ahead. 
Regarding inflation, as I just noted, in my view, we should not be averse to allowing 
inflation to run somewhat above target. Indeed, such overshooting may be necessary to ensure 
inflation expectations firm around our 2 percent target. For some time, my SEP submissions 
have incorporated such overshooting by design. I now think policy must be more 
accommodative to achieve this feature. First, unemployment is unlikely to undershoot its long-
run neutral level by as much as in my earlier projections. Second, I’ve been disappointed that 
inflation expectations have not moved higher, even though year-over-year core inflation has 

r
isen and been close to 2 percent since last March. Household and business surveys have 
changed little. TIPS compensation has risen only a little from its recent lows, and that likely 
largely reflects higher oil prices. And, as I noted yesterday, my business contacts are seeing less 
materials cost pressures, and some are looking for a softer inflation environment later this year. 
All in all, I do not view this picture as one in which inflation expectations are consistent 
with a symmetric 2 percent target. To move inflation expectations to where I think they should 
be, my new policy rate path holds rates at the current level through this year and most of next. 
By late in 2020, I would expect to finally see more definitive signs that inflation and inflation 
expectations are firming. Once these signs emerge, I think one rate hike in late 2020 and another 
in the first half of 2021 will be appropriate, bringing the funds rate to neutral or slightly above it. 
Policy would then be on hold to evaluate progress toward our objectives. 
I expect our policy decisions will be highly data dependent in 2020 and 2021. In 
particular, given the crucial endogeneity between policy and inflation expectations, I think we 
should be responding more to actual inflation data than to forecasts of pressures emerging further 
down the road. In my baseline forecast, we will not be raising rates until 12-month core inflation 
has clearly and substantially breached 2 percent and is headed up modestly further. If we do not 
get there, then policy should remain on hold. If inflation pressures build more quickly than I 
expect, we will have time to respond appropriately, as a flat, non-accelerationist Phillips curve 
limits the upside risks. 
I want to conclude by emphasizing the importance of establishing a firm commitment to a 
symmetric 2 percent inflation target. There is the basic point that if the public doubts this 
commitment, inflation expectations will be mired below 2 percent, making it all that more 

d
ifficult to achieve our goals. So this commitment is fundamental to our current operating 
framework. 
In addition, if we ever want to adopt inflation averaging, conditional price-level targeting, 
or any of the other alternatives on the table in our upcoming monetary framework review, we 
need to have first solidified our commitment to 2 percent inflation symmetry. How can the 
public expect us to commit to the time inconsistent policies that are inherent in many of these 
alternatives if we have not first demonstrated our credibility over the symmetry of our current 
target? We must follow through on our current framework. Otherwise, those other possibilities 
have little chance of success. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we’re in good shape for today. I 
see the main message of today’s decision to be that we’re reinforcing the idea of the end of 
normalization in the United States. I would say the normalization phase is over. That doesn’t 
mean we can’t do other things—and we’ll do other things—but the idea of getting out of the 
lower-bound episode is reaching its end here. 
I would say the normalization is not what many around the table here, or many in 
financial markets, were expecting when we started on this process some time ago. Rates are 
topping out at a lower level than would have been anticipated. The balance sheet is remaining at 
a larger level than would have been anticipated. I think there are good reasons for both of those. 
The global rate environment remains extremely low, both in real rates and in nominal rates. I 
think that was not something that was envisioned when we were getting going on normalization, 
so we’re ending sooner partly because of that. On the balance sheet, I think we did not 
recognize, even a couple of years ago, that the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and other aspects 

of
 financial regulation were going to increase reserve demand substantially more than what we 
would have anticipated. Plus there have been other developments affecting the balance sheet, 
including Treasury Department policy regarding their account balances at the Federal Reserve 
and the growth of currency. 
So I think it’s a great day in many ways. I think many around this table felt that 
normalization would be extremely difficult and fraught with volatility in the economy. That has 
not really been the case. We still have many challenges ahead of us, of course, and how to play 
this remains an open question. 
I think the likely interpretation of today’s decision will be “dovish.” We’ve got our dots 
lower than I think many would have anticipated. I continue to think it will behoove the 
Committee to think carefully about what we want to do about the Summary of Economic 
Projections. We kind of have two policy statements coming out. One is a written statement, and 
one is a dot plot. Sometimes they go together, and sometimes they don’t. 
I think we need to think about that more carefully as we go forward, but today it’s going 
to look pretty consistent with what we’ve been saying. We have a good narrative behind the 
current policy, with muted inflation and muted inflation expectations being the lead item, a very 
weak Phillips curve relationship being very important as well, first quarter real GDP growth 
surprising to the downside—we do think that’ll bounce back, but you never know, so you have to 
wait and see—and global growth surprising to the downside. I think those are all major factors 
that have been cited in the discussion yesterday and today. 
I want to turn to the issue about policy rules for use by the Committee. Some of you 
know that I have, in speeches, suggested modernizing the Taylor (1999) rule, and I have three 
ways that we could modernize that rule. John Taylor has certainly been crazy successful in his 

p
romulgation of the Taylor rule, but he did write on this 20 to 25 years ago, and things have 
changed in several ways. So I just want to briefly talk about ways that I think it could be 
improved. 
The Taylor (1999) rule is the one that’s been used around here the most as a benchmark. 
The first way to modernize this rule would be to lower r*, the intercept term—we have lowered 
the r* already here. The staff has its own estimates. I would lower that even more based on a 
non-model-based, nonparametric look at global data on real interest rates. I think GDP-weighted 
short-term real interest rates are still below zero today. And if you want some trend out of those 
data, you’re going to come up with a number that’s very low. It’s probably a little bit below 
zero, but call it zero. Or if you think it’s not quite that low, you could add a little bit to it. But I 
think that’s the ballpark that we’d start with for r*. It’s very, very low and even lower than a lot 
of the estimates that have been used by participants around the table here. 
The second thing I think we could do is have an inflation expectations gap instead of an 
inflation gap. Expectations are probably the most important determinant of actual inflation, and 
a lot of what we do is the management of inflation expectations, so why not just have that 
directly in the rule instead of trying to go through other variables and hope that those variables 
are correlated with inflation expectations? 
When Taylor was writing his 1999 paper, there was no such thing as a TIPS market, or it 
was just starting. Today there is a TIPS market, and we could use those data to inform our 
judgments about where inflation expectations are relative to target. If markets aren’t expecting a 
lot of inflation, why are we expecting a lot of inflation? That would be the logic of that. 
There are issues around that. If you wanted to use the Michigan survey instead, the 
Michigan survey has drifted down, as Governor Clarida points out. I do think that, for use 

a
round the table here, we should bias-adjust the Michigan survey. Instead of plotting the raw 
data, I think we should have an adjustment: Show me whether you think the Michigan survey is 
telling us that we’re going to miss our inflation target to the low side or to the high side. The 
way the survey works, it’s been biased to the high side for years and years, and I think that bias 
adjustment needs to be made. So that would give us an inflation expectations gap instead of an 
inflation gap. 
And, finally, there’d be an output gap in this rule. I’ve argued that the coefficient on that 
output gap should be reduced by a factor of 10 to reflect the very flat Phillips curve that we have 
seen. Some of those adjustments have already been made by the staff. 
If you make these adjustments to the Taylor (1999) rule, you’ll get a pretty good tracking 
of what the Committee has actually done in recent years. This is an untested approach, but I just 
thought these comments might be useful, since we’re thinking about how to proceed with regard 
to a baseline policy rule. 
Finally, on the language in the statement today in alternative B—and I do support 
alternative B—I brought up yesterday this issue about “global economic and financial 
developments,” which is in paragraph 2. I am a little bit queasy about putting “financial 
developments” in there, since financial conditions have improved globally. I’m not sure we can 
cite that on a day when we’re moving in a dovish direction. I think a simple thing to do would 
be to just cross that out and say, “In light of global economic developments and muted inflation 
pressures, the Committee will be patient.” I don’t think it’s critically important, but it might 
sound a little tinny and a little tone deaf compared with what’s happened during the intermeeting 
period. 
That concludes my comments. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

CHAI
R POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The outlook is cloudy, but today’s policy 
decision is clear. I support alternative B. 
Over the past few years, in pursuit of our dual-mandate goals, we have gradually reduced 
policy accommodation and brought the funds rate up to the bottom of the range of FOMC 
participants’ estimates of its long-run neutral rate. This strategy fostered a strong labor market 
and brought inflation up to our target. Real GDP growth is now slowing, but there’s uncertainty 
about the pace and duration of the slowdown and whether we’ll see a rebound from the weak 
first quarter. 
My modal forecast is that the expansion will continue with growth at or slightly above 
trend, strong labor markets, and inflation near 2 percent over the forecast horizon. To achieve 
these outcomes, I anticipate the funds rate will need to move up a bit more later this year, but I 
acknowledge there is uncertainty associated with that policy rate path. 
Given the current level of interest rates and little sign that inflation is poised to rise 
appreciably despite the strength in labor markets, I see no urgency to change our policy stance 
today. I see things as Governor Clarida does. There’s less need to be preemptive because we 
brought the policy rate up to the range of neutral, and we’re near our goals. I agree, we should 
take the opportunity to allow the economy to evolve and to continue to assess economic and 
financial developments and the risks before determining any further policy action. 
Now, part of that assessment is evaluating the negative signals coming from the weaker 
first-quarter data and the positive signals coming from the strong labor market. If the slowdown 
in growth is steeper and more persistent than expected or inflation moves down, we could be on 
hold for some time or may even have to consider easing policy. 

B
ut it’s also important that we not get too pessimistic about the economic outlook and 
send too negative a signal. A slowdown in growth and employment from the unsustainable 
paces we’ve seen over the past year is consistent with our policy goals and with sustained 
expansion. Some softening in the data should be expected. 
The strength in the labor market may suggest there’s more underlying positive 
momentum in the economy than we might think. So I agree with President Bostic: We need to 
keep this possibility on the table. Depending on how the economy evolves, in order to sustain 
the expansion and the achievement of our goals, we may not be done raising rates, and we may 
need to be prepared to do so if appropriate. 
Regarding statement language, the challenge is to convey that the economy is slowing. 
There’s some uncertainty about the pace of slowing, but at this time, the Committee does not 
expect a severe or prolonged slowdown and believes that the most likely outcome is that the 
expansion will continue, labor markets will remain strong, and inflation will remain near our 
2 percent goal. 
The fact that our outlook remains positive seems to be a particularly important message 
to convey, as first-quarter real GDP growth is likely to come in quite weak and get a lot of 
attention. Although I would prefer more of a link between the first paragraph’s description of 
recent economic conditions and the Committee’s outlook in paragraph 2, I think the language in 
alternative B basically sends the appropriate message, and I support it as written. 
That said, I do think the message from the press conference and the balance sheet 
statement could be interpreted more dovishly than we intend. So I think we really have to be 
cautious about that and try to avoid sending the wrong signal. 

C
ommunications have become a very important part of Federal Reserve policy. In 
thinking about where the economy is and how we talk about it, I wonder whether our 
communications would be different if, instead of setting a point goal for inflation, the Committee 
had set a range target. This is distinct from targeting average inflation, which is akin to price-
level targeting, and which is being discussed as part of the monetary policy framework 
conversation. 
Now, I realize that at the time the 2 percent inflation goal was set, there were arguments 
on both sides of whether to set a point target or a range. This was before I was on the 
Committee, but as I recall, those wanting to set a point target argued persuasively that this would 
better anchor inflation expectations, especially at a time when we were going from not having an 
explicit target to having one. But implicit in that was that the Committee would be able to 
tolerate small deviations from the target, given the precision with which we can measure 
inflation and the precision with which we can guide the economy. I can’t help but think how our 
communications today might be different had the Committee opted for a range rather than a 
target. Perhaps there would not be much difference, but I think there might be. And I hope that 
the Committee will put this on the list of things to discuss as part of our framework study. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. The language 
is little changed. And given my own downgrading of the economic outlook, I see no reason to 
change it. 
The language in alternative B should continue to assure markets that the Committee will 
be patient, and that is consistent with my own policy views. I see the need for, at most, one rate 

hi
ke in 2019, with an additional possible hike in 2020 and no hike in 2021. At that point, policy 
will be slightly above its neutral setting, which I estimate to be 2.75 percent. Of course, things 
will most likely change between now and then, so I will do my very best to get my creaky old 
body and mind into an athletic posture. [Laughter] Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as written. In light of 
various uncertainties, particularly relating to decelerating global growth, the effect of waning 
fiscal stimulus, the effect of previous Committee rate increases taking hold, as well as muted 
inflation pressures, I believe we’re wise to be patient. 
That caution, for me, is also reinforced by the shape of the yield curve. I’m struck by the 
2-year Treasury rate in the mid 2.40’s, the 5-year rate around 2.40, and the 10-year rate a little bit 
below 2.60. Those numbers seem to suggest to me and reinforce the conclusion that, at this 
stage, caution is warranted. 
My SEP submission calls for no increases in ’19 and no increases in ’20. That said, this 
submission is not written in stone, and I am open to the idea that these views may need to 
change. I do believe there’s some reasonable probability that growth in the United States will 
stabilize at or near trend, with inflation at our target. If that occurs, we’re going to have to, 
obviously, make a judgment about whether some additional action is appropriate. I’m also open 
to the possibility that the next move in the federal funds rate might need to be down, versus up, if 
growth is weaker than I expect. 
In any event, I think patience will serve us well in making these judgments, and we’ll 
benefit from taking time to see how the economy unfolds. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 

M
S. BOWMAN. Thank you, Chairman Powell. I support alternative B as written. 
Currently available national economic data have not changed my outlook significantly from the 
January meeting. Although the data seem to suggest that household and business spending 
growth has slowed down sharply this quarter, I think this will probably be only a temporary dip, 
part of which can be traced to the effects of the shutdown. 
The labor market appears, on balance, to remain very strong, with the unemployment rate 
well below what the staff notes as the natural rate of unemployment. Financial markets are much 
less volatile, and borrowing conditions look to have eased quite a bit since the end of the year. 
Residential mortgage rates have dropped to their lowest levels in more than a year, though we’ve 
yet to see improvement in residential sales data. 
Overall, I remain optimistic that the performance of the domestic economy in 2019 will 
continue to be strong, although uncertainties about trade policies and the economic performance 
of our important trading partners present negative risks to the economic growth here at home. In 
addition, we have yet to experience an extended period when inflation has been near our 
2 percent target. Although it’s not my expectation, it seems possible that the soft inflation data 
in recent months could prove longer lasting. 
In my view, the current data suggest we’re close to the neutral rate. So unless we see 
significant changes in the data, it makes sense to continue our patient stance and to monitor 
economic conditions carefully to assess the full effect of the previous rate increases as well as 
our adjustments to our balance sheet. This is particularly important, as there are still several 
factors that weigh significantly on my assessment of economic growth over the coming year. 
Being patient can provide us with the opportunity to consider and determine the appropriate 
future actions as warranted by data available at that time. Thank you. 

CHAI
R POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Today’s decision, of course, is straightforward. 
Growth seems to be moderating toward trend. Unemployment is low. Inflation is stable and 
close to target. We said we’d be patient. It’s hard to make the case for anything other than 
holding rates steady. 
I may be alone, but as I prepared for today and as I foreshadowed last time, I did find 
myself impatient with the word “patient.” [Laughter] I can make the case we’re headed back to 
an above-trend track now that sentiment has rebounded, productivity and investment showed 
well in the fourth quarter, and many uncertainties seem to be heading toward being resolved. 
But, alternatively, I can make the case that the economy is weakening, based on retail sales, 
international stagnation, and the employment report. Either scenario could crystallize quickly. 
The time for forward guidance is past. Why constrain ourselves? Put differently, I see 
eliminating forward guidance as creating policy space either way. 
I recognize the communication challenges. Market participants might interpret removing 
“patience” as “hawkish” or perhaps even “dovish,” but today may be the perfect day to make the 
change. Our SEP median makes the case we’re balanced in our outlook, at least for the near to 
medium term. That will offset concerns that we’re inexorably taking rates up or that we see a 
recession is imminent. 
Alternatively—because I’m pretty sure you’re not going to change the statement now 
[laughter]—if we want to prepare the market for the change, the Chairman could use his press 
conference for that purpose, indicating we will take the language out relatively soon, as in 
alternative C without the bracketed forward guidance. The SEP will help give the message that 
such a move would be neither “hawkish” nor “dovish.” 

CHAI
R POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as written. The 
changes to the first paragraph certainly capture the subdued or even negative tone of some of the 
recent data. Given those data, I view our patient stance at this meeting as being appropriate. I 
am very comfortable with remaining patient at this point. 
That said, unlike President Bullard, I don’t think we’re done. But I do agree with him 
that today might be taken that way. So I agree very much with President Mester, President 
Bostic, and President Barkin just now that our communications need to keep our options open. I 
do see the need to further increase the target rate for policy at some point, very likely later this 
year. My own estimate of the neutral policy rate is a few rate hikes north of where we are now. 
So, in the long run, I continue to see the current stance of policy as being accommodative, and, 
eventually, the economy will require higher rates in order to maintain sustainable growth. 
My higher estimate of the neutral rate is a result of my optimism regarding the potential 
growth rate of the economy. I think that the tax cuts, productivity developments, and 
improvements in the general business environment will impart some momentum to economic 
growth and support higher interest rates. But I would add that my neutral rate, although higher 
than some estimates—maybe many estimates—remains well below what was considered the pre-
crisis norm. 
As I’ve said before, I’m not particularly troubled by the relatively muted reaction of 
inflation to the apparent tightness of the labor market and other aspects of the economy. Given 
our success in communicating our policy and anchoring inflation expectations close to target, I 
continue to question whether inflation is, in itself, a particularly good indicator of where we are 
in the business cycle. 

N
ow, we have two and a half hours, and I prepared an elaborate aviation analogy 
[laughter] involving a Beechcraft King Air at the Springbank Airport in Alberta after the coldest 
night in the history of Canada, but I will save that for a later day. [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as written. The 
economy remains on solid footing by most measures even as the growth outlook moderates 
relative to its performance last year. Maintaining the current stance of policy seems appropriate 
today as we monitor the evolution of downside risk as well as last year’s policy tightening. 
As I noted yesterday, with limited monetary and fiscal policy space to respond to 
potential shocks, the current low-inflation environment offers the opportunity to be patient and 
monitor these risks as we determine whether any further adjustment to rates is needed. I do 
support the views that I’ve heard here from President Barkin and others. And, as I’ve said 
before, the opportunity to remove “patience” from our statement at some point soon is going to 
be important to give us flexibility either way. I also think this patient approach will allow the 
public today to appropriately focus on the announcement about the Committee’s revised Balance 
Sheet Normalization Principles and Plans. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. As I described 
yesterday, relative to December, I have marked down my forecast for 2019. I now expect 
growth this year to come in close to its long-run trend, the unemployment rate to remain steady 
around 3.7 percent, and inflation pressures to remain muted. This is in part a reflection of 
headwinds, as many others have mentioned, but also a response—which is a little bit larger than 
I thought it was going to be—to our past policy rate increases and the waning of fiscal stimulus. 

W
ith growth at trend, we have achieved or are close to achieving our dual-mandate goals, 
and the funds rate is at or near neutral. Patience and watchful waiting, as Governor Brainard said 
yesterday, are appropriate. Accordingly, I have penciled in no rate hikes this year. 
Now, returning to the discussion that we had yesterday, which I found very helpful: I do 
not arrive at my views on appropriate policy based on an asymmetric loss function for 
unemployment. Rather, I’m concerned about our inability to date to achieve 2 percent inflation 
on a sustained basis. Whether this is due to a series of wedges that disrupt the linkages between 
economic activity and inflation or is related to a downward drift in inflation expectations, the 
policy prescription is the same—as Vice Chair Williams said yesterday, patience with a goal of 
allowing inflation to rise sustainably back to target. Of course, sustaining the current expansion 
also has the benefit of boosting job prospects and wages of those historically marginalized in the 
labor market, as my Brookings- Papers article with Bill and our coauthors found. 
The bottom line is that, given the outlook for growth and inflation, I see no pressing need 
to raise interest rates further this year. If the economy evolves differently than I expect, either 
faster or slower growth, we can respond agilely at that time without, as President Evans 
mentioned, any risk that we’re going to have runaway inflation or that inflation would plummet. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to briefly comment on the SEP. I think it 
broadly supports our communication strategy. Overall, I think the SEP has served us well. It is 
hard to imagine, especially in a year when we are seeking public input and marketing that we’re 
particularly transparent, that we would want to cut back on the information and produce less 
frequent SEPs or include fewer series in it. 
As the Chair noted, the most challenging issue is the dot plot. While far from perfect, it 
was a useful tool when the policy rate was near zero, as it conveyed the asymmetric distribution 

of
 future rates as they were constrained by the lower bound. The funds rate path was also quite 
helpful in conveying to the public the evolution of the Committee’s views on longer-run r* and, I 
would argue, the other star variables as well, when they saw the long-run natural rate of 
unemployment and also g* come down. 
Now that we are away from the zero lower bound, the dot plot may overemphasize 
disagreement among participants over the central tendency or may be misinterpreted, as you 
mentioned, as a consensus forecast. But this is a tradeoff, one that I, admittedly, do not face as 
you do, Chair Powell. The other side of that tradeoff is the lack of transparency. 
So, overall, I’m guided by the principles that monetary policy works best when the public 
understands the rationale for our actions and can follow the logic of our reaction function. As 
such, I would find it difficult to support eliminating the SEP or reducing the elements of the 
package of economic forecasts and policy interest rates that help market participants and the 
public understand how we are thinking about and managing policy. I will, though—as you asked 
yesterday—think hard about how to make the SEP better. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B. I’m generally 
happy with the current policy stance. I don’t want to overreact to a single weak jobs report. I 
anticipate that job growth will pick up after the turn-of-the-year slowdown. I continue to believe 
that there’s still slack in the labor market and, therefore, see no need to raise rates, given stable 
inflation and inflation expectations. 
As I look forward, for me, the risks have increased somewhat to the downside. I don’t 
think any forward guidance on the path of rates is appropriate. I think we should be prepared to 
adjust rates, as others have said, in either direction depending on how the data evolve. 

L
et me just add one comment on the SEP. I think this move today in the SEP is a big 
move. I think markets are going to look at it and be surprised by how far the dots have moved, 
and I think the move is appropriate. I’m happy with where the SEP is landing. 
The concern that I have is, in this environment, in which the path ahead is really unclear, 
the dots could move a lot period to period, depending on the data that come in. And this, I think, 
is going to work against us. Think about GDPNow forecasts. They whipsaw around. Imagine if 
the data are mixed and we see the dots moving around to June, to September, and to December. 
I think the SEP is very useful and very powerful when we have a lot of confidence about what 
the path ahead looks like. I think, in an environment like now, when we don’t have a lot of 
confidence and could see a lot of volatility in the dots, the SEP could end up working against us. 
So for me, that points toward—and the communications subcommittee is looking at this—
finding ways to deemphasize the dot plot and reserving it for when we really want to use forward 
guidance. And I don’t think right now we’re in a time when we really want to use forward 
guidance, because we just don’t know. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. At a time when the modal outlook has weakened and 
risks appear more weighted to the downside than the upside, the best way to safeguard the gains 
we’ve made on jobs and inflation is to navigate cautiously on rates. Risk management in an 
environment of a low long-run neutral rate and an attenuated relationship between resource 
utilization and overall inflation supports this approach. Watchful waiting will allow us to gather 
more information about domestic momentum and foreign real GDP growth, as well as some of 
the policy risks weighing on sentiment. For these reasons, I support alternative B. 

F
or the time being, “patient” is descriptive of the modal policy rate path seen in the SEP 
median. However, like Presidents Barkin, Bostic, Mester, and George and Governor Quarles, I 
am reluctant to again get locked into forward guidance. And, of course, patience is only the right 
policy in one direction. We would be patient about raising rates if the economy continues to 
grow above trend until inflation has clearly reached 2 percent on a sustainable basis. But we 
wouldn’t be patient if further evidence of weakness were to accumulate, in which case we would 
likely move quite swiftly. So we should be thinking about the appropriate communications that 
would allow us a smooth transition in either direction. 
I’m also pleased asset redemptions will end later this year. And I believe that we should 
be pleased with how smoothly balance sheet normalization has proceeded, in view of the fact 
that it was largely uncharted territory when we initiated this process. And I really want to take 
my hat off to all of the staff who have worked on this process. It really has been very 
impressive. 
I want to return to a subject introduced by Presidents Kaplan and Rosengren yesterday. 
The recent “pivot” in our posture has contributed to a near-complete reversal of the financial 
tightening we saw late last year. With the recent rebound in financial conditions, asset 
valuations are again starting to look rich. As of Friday, the S&P 500 index was only about 4 
percent below its all-time high of last fall—a level that the staff estimates put stock prices at a 
historically elevated range. And, similarly, high-yield spreads have reversed more than half of 
their recent widening. Corporate indebtedness, as President Kaplan mentioned yesterday, 
remains at record levels in relative terms, and, after a wintertime lull, issuance of risky corporate 
debt has picked up again. 

R
esearch suggests there’s a systematic relationship between risk-taking and the business 
cycle. For example, when the unemployment rate is low, the equity risk premium also tends to 
be low. And, as the experience of recent decades has illustrated, this pro-cyclicality of risk-
taking has been an important factor in all of the recent cycles, as it appears financial imbalances 
have played a much more important role in bringing about a slowing in the economy than has an 
inflation-induced tightening of monetary policy. 
If it were possible to better insulate the real economy and, in particular, the labor market 
from the financial cycle, we would be better able to achieve our dual-mandate objectives. In its 
most recent discussion of the role of monetary policy in achieving financial stability, the 
Committee stated its preferred approach would be to rely on macroprudential tools so as to avoid 
the costs associated with deviating from our dual-mandate objectives. Recent research supports 
this prioritization—and demonstrates that, in achieving financial stability, the use of 
macroprudential policy has a much better cost–benefit tradeoff than monetary policy does. 
In the U.S. context, of course, the use of the Countercyclical Capital Buffer (CCyB) 
would free up monetary policy to focus on its dual-mandate goal while also building resilience 
cyclically—something that monetary policy does not do. The CCyB has the further attraction 
that it can be released were the economy to weaken, further boosting the ability of the largest 
institutions to continue lending and boosting the effectiveness of our monetary policy response. 
We saw, in a financial stability tabletop hosted by President Mester in her role as chair of the 
Conference of Presidents Financial Stability Committee, that this mechanism was particularly 
attractive. 
So making the CCyB a systematic part of our actions to address credit cycles could have 
the potential for extending the life of cyclical expansions. That’s especially important in current 

ci
rcumstances. To meet our inflation goal at the same time when we may be entering a period of 
heightened financial imbalances and thus greater recession risk, it’s very desirable to find a way 
to prolong the expansion while keeping financial risk in check. In this regard, it’s worth noting 
the Committee hasn’t explored the topic of financial stability and monetary policy since April 
2016, and it might be valuable to have an opportunity to revisit this topic in light of recent 
research. 
Finally, with regard to the dot plot, I think my comments really echo those voiced by 
President Daly quite closely. I do think that the dots are an important part of transparency and 
accountability. On the other hand, I recognize that they can present communications challenges, 
particularly at year-end. So I welcome the opportunity to explore whether there are ways to 
improve the SEP in a manner that better conveys useful information to the public. And I know 
that Governor Clarida is going to take forward that charge. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as 
written, which appropriately continues to emphasize a patient and data-dependent approach. 
I’m looking at paragraph 1 in alternative B, and there is obviously a lot of red ink. As 
President Mester and others correctly asked, pointed out—and a number of people have been 
talking about this—how do we make sure we get the right balance in paragraph 1? Q1 growth is 
slowing pretty dramatically, but we don’t think that’s really a sign of where the economy is 
going to be for the rest of the year. There is also the issue that Governor Clarida talked about 
with the inflation expectations and how to get that right. Obviously, in one paragraph, it’s 
impossible to capture the nuance, the subtlety, and the uncertainties. 

I
 do think that paragraph 1 does a good job of getting the level right, which is, this is a 
strong economy. This is about as good as it gets from a dual-mandate point of view, with 
unemployment below 4 percent, inflation near 2 percent, and growth around trend. But it also 
does reflect—I think, accurately—the “delta” in the data flow that we’re getting. 
But when I read through this and I listen to everybody, I realize that the real challenge we 
have—whether it’s in the statement, in the press conference, or whenever we communicate—is 
that there’s a lot going on. There are a lot of pieces to this. So it’s good to have a kind of nice 
summary statistic—and, oh, that’s good because, as President Daly said, we have the SEP. 
[Laughter] 
 Let’s look at that. W e see real GDP growth—the median—which is a very good 
summary statistic in general. It shows growth at 2.1 percent. Real GDP growth in Q1 might be 
below 1 percent, but we have a view that the economy is growing roughly at trend, the trend 
being the longer-run median of 1.9 percent. Unemployment is expected to be below 4 percent 
through this year and the next few years. As a number of people have mentioned, we have an 
evolution of our views of u*, r*, and g*. But this is a pretty strong numerical statement that we 
think, despite the ups and downs between Q4 and Q1 and the inventory cycle and the weather 
and all of those things, that we fundamentally see an economy continuing to grow—but slower 
than last year—a strong labor market, and inflation coming in around 2 percent or a little bit 
lower. 
But we also have a good story about the “delta”—from December, at least. Growth is a 
little bit softer. My calculation on the median is that the unemployment gap has been shifted up 
by 0.3 percentage points. In other words, our assessment is now that labor markets will be a 
little bit less tight—a reflection of both a lower u* and a little bit higher unemployment rate—

a
nd overall inflation a touch softer. And then when you run that through a Taylor rule or some 
kind of view on how the right-hand-side variables feed into policy, we see a softer path—a 
lower, flatter path for the funds rate—which I think actually holds together well. 
I bring this up because I don’t think we should lose track of the fact that having a nice 
summary of our views—a coherent story on both the level and the “delta”—is something that is a 
very helpful complement to all of the other communication we have. It’s also a formal process 
that we go through regularly. So I think that the SEP this time, despite all of the concerns about 
dots and medians and everything, is actually helping us a lot in communicating our views on the 
economy and where policy is likely to go. 
Going back to January, I had three possible scenarios for the economy this year, in 
decreasing order of optimism. While it was unclear which of the three would materialize, I saw 
the middle scenario of near-potential and near-target growth and near-target inflation as most 
likely, and that is supported by an unchanged target for the policy rate that’s right at my view of 
neutral. 
Recent developments have not altered this assessment. Although geopolitical and global 
risks hang over the economy and some slowdown in growth is in the cards, we still have solid 
domestic fundamentals, and that should help prevent a more dramatic deterioration in economic 
activity. At the same time, upward pressure on inflation seems unlikely to emerge in the course 
of this year. 
I want to come back to a topic that a number of people mentioned yesterday and that 
Governor Clarida mentioned again. I do think we have to be very watchful on this inflation 
expectations issue—about its becoming anchored too low. I think President Evans referred to its 
becoming mired at too low a level. In a world in which the neutral rate is very low and that 

c
onstrains policy space, persistently low inflation can pull inflation expectations lower, and that 
in turn pulls inflation further down in a vicious circle. 
We are seeing signs of this already in the world around us. If you look at Simon’s chart 
in his packet yesterday—this is, I guess, figure 6—long-run inflation expectations, at least 
market-based measures from swaps, have come down pretty significantly in both Japan and the 
euro area, obviously reflecting the reality that inflation has been below their target for many 
years and is likely to stay there for many years to come. These issues could become especially 
worrisome if the global growth slowdown intensifies. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. I sense strong support around the table for alternative B, 
and I’m now going to ask Jim to make clear what it is we’re voting on and read the roll. 
MR. CLOUSE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The vote will be on the monetary policy 
statement as it appears on page 4 of Thomas’s briefing materials, and the vote will also 
encompass the directive to the Desk as it appears on pages 6 and 7 of Thomas’s briefing 
materials. I just note that the second paragraph of that directive that describes the rollover-of-
Treasury-securities option will be the first option shown on page 6. That’s the one without the 
April taper. With that, I’ll call the roll. 
Chair Powell Yes 
Vice Chair Williams Yes 
Governor Bowman Yes 
Governor Brainard Yes 
President Bullard Yes 
Governor Clarida Yes 
President Evans Yes 
President George Yes 
President Rosengren Yes 
Governor Quarles Yes 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Now we have two sets of related matters under the 
Board’s jurisdiction: corresponding interest rates on reserves and discount rates. May I have a 

mo
tion from a Board member to take the proposed action with respect to the interest rates on 
reserves as set forth in the first paragraph on the last page of Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. Now may I have a motion from a 
Board member to take the proposed actions with respect to the primary credit rate and the rates 
for secondary and seasonal credit as set forth in the second paragraph on the last page of 
Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. And now, before we confirm the date of our next 
meeting and wrap up, I’d like to turn the floor over to Governor Clarida, who has a few 
comments on the review and also the subcommittee. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. Well, as you’ll recall, there are really three 
essential elements to the framework review, so I wanted to update you on where those stand. 
The three elements are the series of Fed Listens events, a conference graciously hosted by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago in June, and then a number of work streams by our staff that 
will help prepare us in the second half of the year to discuss the framework review. 
Each of those three is in good shape. We’ve already had one Fed Listens event in Dallas, 
and many more are scheduled. And as those are finalized, they’ll show up on a central webpage 
that is available for you and the public. 

R
egarding the June 4 and 5 conference, the program is complete and will be posted 
shortly. You either have or will shortly receive your invitations for hotels and the like, and then 
we’re sending out a broader list of invitations later. 
The third element, of course, as we discussed at the January meeting, is that Thomas 
Laubach is leading an effort to coordinate work streams that are under way now that will then 
help prepare us for the discussions we’ll be having in the second half of the year. 
As you know, Chair Powell has asked the subcommittee on communications to explore 
ways in which the SEP and the dots can be refined and improved. We have already met twice on 
that, once by conference call and once in person yesterday, and received a very good briefing on 
several options by the staff. I have already started to reach out to you by phone. My colleagues 
will continue that process as we seek your input to that. And, as we reach convergence on the 
subcommittee toward recommendations, we’ll try to get that onto the agenda at a future meeting. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Thank you. I’ll wrap up with just a couple of words on the 
dots. First of all, I think we’re in a really good place on policy. I think the decision today is a 
good one. I think I’m very comfortable that we’re in the right place and that patience is still the 
right stance. Also, I completely appreciate the difficulty in making changes of a material nature 
regarding the dots. It would be a high bar for doing that. But if you think back, December was 
about convincing the public that, while there were two rate increases shown in the SEP, those 
increases were highly uncertain without sounding like you were backing away from the decision 
to raise rates. This meeting is more of a decision about conveying that this is not a promise 
never to raise rates again, but also coming off not too “hawkish” and not too “dovish.” 
So, honestly, it can be complicated to communicate. The existence of the dots is a great 
thing, but it really does present communications challenges at certain points. When the economy 

i
s moving along on an expected path, they’re great. So I would say, what you’re going to hear 
from me is a lot of rhetoric of “they’re not a decision”, and that sort of thing, which is going to 
get boring, if it’s not already, and maybe won’t be effective, either. But I do think President 
Kashkari is right. There can be plenty of ways that we once again find ourselves either trapped 
or at risk because of the dots, as opposed to them helping in certain circumstances. So that’s 
why I do take this process seriously. 
And with that, to wrap up, the next meeting is Tuesday and Wednesday, April 30 and 
May 1, and that concludes the meeting. As usual, a buffet lunch will be served at 11:30 in the 
anteroom for those of you who don’t have better options. [Laughter] Thanks very much. 
END OF MEETING

===== FOMC MEETING 2019-05-01 =====

Meet
ing of the Federal Open Market Committee 
April 30–May 1, 2019 
A
 joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board of Governors was held in 
the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on 
Tuesday, April 30, 2019, at 10:00 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, May 1, 2019, at 9:00 a.m. 
PR
ESENT: 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
James Bullard 
Richard H. Clarida 
Charles L. Evans 
Esther L. George 
Randal K. Quarles 
Eric Rosengren 
P
atrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Michael Strine, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
T
homas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, and Mary C. Daly, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively 
Jam
es A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Michael Held, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
Thomas Laubach, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
R
ochelle M. Edge, Eric M. Engen, Anna Paulson, Geoffrey Tootell, William Wascher, 
Jonathan L. Willis, and Beth Anne Wilson, Associate Economists 
S
imon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account 
L
orie K. Logan, Deputy Manager, System Open Market Account 
A
nn E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
April 30–May 1, 2019
1 of 248
 
Matthew J. Eichner,1 Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board of Governors; Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
Board of Governors; Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors 
 
Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of Governors; 
Trevor A. Reeve, Deputy Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Antulio N. Bomfim, Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Brian M. Doyle,
2 Wendy E. Dunn, Ellen E. Meade, and John M. Roberts, Special Advisers to 
the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Shaghil Ahmed and Christopher J. Erceg,
3 Senior Associate Directors, Division of 
International Finance, Board of Governors; William F. Bassett, Senior Associate Director, 
Division of Financial Stability, Board of Governors; Joshua Gallin and David E. Lebow, 
Senior Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Robert J. Tetlow, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Marnie Gillis DeBoer, Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors; John J. Stevens, Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of 
Governors 
 
Jeffrey D. Walker,
2 Deputy Associate Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and 
Payment Systems, Board of Governors 
 
Eric C. Engstrom, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, and Adviser, 
Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Glenn Follette, Assistant Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; 
Laura Lipscomb
2 and Zeynep Senyuz,2 Assistant Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors 
 
Dana L. Burnett, Michele Cavallo, and Matthew Malloy,
2 Section Chiefs, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
 
1 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. 
2 Attended Wednesday session only. 
3 Attended opening remarks for Tuesday session only. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
2 of 248
 
Penelope A. Beattie,4 Assistant to the Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
 
David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Juan M. Londono, Principal Economist, Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors; Camelia Minoiu and Bernd Schlusche, Principal Economists, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Brian J. Bonis,
2 Lead Financial Institution and Policy Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors 
 
Randall A. Williams, Senior Information Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
James M. Trevino,
2 Senior Technology Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
Ron Feldman, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Kartik B. Athreya, Michael Dotsey, Sylvain Leduc, and Ellis W. Tallman, Executive Vice 
Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Cleveland, 
respectively 
 
Evan F. Koenig, Antoine Martin,
2 Samuel Schulhofer-Wohl, Mark L.J. Wright, and 
Nathaniel Wuerffel,2 Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Dallas, New York, 
Chicago, Minneapolis, and New York, respectively 
 
David C. Wheelock, Group Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
 
Patricia Zobel,
2 Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
 
Mary Amiti and William E. Riordan,
2 Assistant Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York and New York, respectively 
 
John Robertson, Research Economist and Senior Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
 
Justin Meyer,
2 Markets Manager, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
 
 
 
4 Attended Tuesday session only. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
3 of 248
 
 
Transcript of the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting on 
April 30–May 1, 2019 
 
April 30 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. 
PARTICIPANTS. Good morning. 
CHAIR POWELL. This meeting, as usual, will be a joint meeting of the FOMC and the 
Board. I need a motion from a Board member to close the meeting. 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. As some of you know, Chris Erceg will be 
retiring on May 1 after more than 25 years of service to the International Finance Division and 
the Board and will be joining the IMF as a deputy director in the Monetary and Capital Markets 
Department. This will be Chris’s 17th and last FOMC meeting. After working as a research 
assistant at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago during graduate school, Chris came to the 
Board as an economist in 1993, working on emerging market economies. He later played a 
major role in the development of the Board’s global macroeconomic models, for which he was 
awarded the Board’s Special Achievement Award in 2005. Chris’s work on monetary and fiscal 
policy strategies has been featured in numerous memos to the Board and the FOMC. He’s also 
well known and respected in academic circles and has published extensively in top journals. The 
Fed will greatly miss Chris’s deep analytical contributions to its mission, as well as his 
pronounced dedication, enthusiasm, and collegiality. Chris, we wish you well in your new role. 
Please stand and be applauded. [Applause] 
Let’s turn now to our first formal agenda item, and our first agenda is the selection of a 
Committee officer. Our colleague at the Chicago Fed, Dan Sullivan, has taken on a new role at 
April 30–May 1, 2019
4 of 248
 
the Chicago Fed, and Anna Paulson has been named director of research and executive vice 
president. Anna is here today. Welcome, Anna, wherever you may be. There you are. 
[Laughter] And President Evans is prepared to make the nomination for Anna to serve as 
associate economist. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’d like to nominate Anna Paulson as 
associate economist. Anna is now executive vice president and director of research at the 
Chicago Fed. She joined the Chicago Fed as an economist in 2001 and has most recently served 
as associate director of research. During her tenure, she has worked on many System projects 
related to financial stability and monetary policy implementation and served on the Financial 
Market Utility Supervisory Committee. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Consistent with the Committee’s practice, the motion is 
to select Ms. Paulson to replace Dan Sullivan as associate economist until the Committee’s first 
regularly scheduled meeting in 2020. Is there a second? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I enthusiastically second the motion. 
CHAIR POWELL. Any objection? [No response] If not, this selection is approved 
unanimously by the Committee. 
Congratulations, Anna. We look forward to working with you in your new role. Please. 
[Applause] 
Let’s begin our discussion of a long-run composition of the SOMA portfolio. As you 
know, this discussion is not intended to be decisional. Rather, the goal is to have an active 
discussion of the key macroeconomic considerations associated with SOMA securities holdings 
that can help lay the groundwork for reaching consensus at later meetings. I anticipate that the 
staff will come back to the Committee with additional analysis at some point later this year, 
April 30–May 1, 2019
5 of 248
 
perhaps in connection with the strategic review that will include more detailed discussion of 
specific options for the long-run SOMA composition. When we revisit these issues later in the 
year, the aim will be to decide on and then communicate to the public our plans with regard to 
the portfolio. Let’s get started with a briefing from Sam Schulhofer-Wohl and Antoine Martin. 
Sam, would you like to begin? 
MR. SCHULHOFER-WOHL.1 Thank you, Mr. Chair. At the March meeting, 
you adopted an interim plan for the reinvestment of principal payments received from 
the SOMA portfolio after balance sheet runoff ends in September, and you indicated 
that you would revisit that plan in connection with deliberations on the portfolio’s 
longer-run composition. Today, Antoine and I will describe how some key macro-
financial variables can be affected by the longer-run composition and the transition to 
it. 
As listed in the upper-left panel of the exhibit, our presentation will consider two 
illustrative targets for the long-run composition of the portfolio: one proportional to 
the maturity composition of the “universe” of outstanding Treasury securities and one 
containing only shorter-term securities. And we will describe two illustrative 
approaches for transitioning to these targets: a gradual approach based on directing 
reinvestments of principal payments received as well as new investments into a mix 
of securities spread across the target portfolio, and an accelerated approach that 
reduces the portfolio’s weighted average maturity, or WAM, more rapidly by 
directing some purchases to Treasury bills. These targets and transition approaches 
make a variety of simplifying assumptions with the aim of clearly drawing out the 
key macro-financial tradeoffs and exhibiting basic magnitudes. Purely for illustrative 
purposes, we’ll assume that the transition begins in January 2020. We’ll also assume 
that the portfolio of mortgage-backed securities unwinds passively as principal 
payments are received, although you could of course also consider selling MBS. 
The upper-right panel of the exhibit shows how the SOMA Treasury security 
portfolio’s WAM would evolve for each of the targets and transition approaches and 
in the Tealbook baseline. With a proportional target and gradual transition, the 
portfolio’s composition would match that of the target after about a decade and a half. 
If you used an accelerated transition approach, you could bring the WAM down to 
match the average maturity of the Treasury “universe” in about five years by rapidly 
acquiring Treasury bills. But it’s important to note that the portfolio’s overall 
composition would still be rather different from the target at that time, because 
Treasury bills would be greatly overrepresented. With a short target for the portfolio 
composition, it would take more than a decade and a half to match the WAM of the 
target portfolio, and even longer to match the overall composition. However, even 
with a gradual transition approach, a short target would bring down the portfolio’s 
 
1 The materials used by Messrs. Schulhofer-Wohl and Martin are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). 
April 30–May 1, 2019
6 of 248
 
WAM more rapidly than the accelerated transition to a proportional target because the 
short target would significantly change how maturing Treasury securities are 
reinvested. 
Moving to a shorter-duration portfolio target would build capacity for providing 
economic stimulus through a maturity extension program, or MEP, that would 
exchange shorter-term securities for longer-term ones without increasing the size of 
the balance sheet. The middle-left panel of the exhibit shows the amount of MEP 
capacity in the portfolio—measured as the par value of securities with less than three 
years to maturity, relative to GDP—for different target compositions and transition 
approaches. In comparison, the MEP that the Committee conducted in 2011 and 
2012 was about 4 percent of GDP. With a short portfolio target, the SOMA’s MEP 
capacity would eventually be more than triple that size, relative to GDP. 
Nonetheless, even a proportional target portfolio would have substantial MEP 
capacity, exceeding the size of the MEP conducted in 2011 and 2012. 
But holding shorter-duration securities to create MEP capacity could come at a 
cost in terms of the capacity to provide stimulus through a lower federal funds rate 
target. All else being equal, if the Federal Reserve holds more short-term securities 
and fewer long-term ones, this would leave more long-term securities in the hands of 
private investors. In our preferred models, an increase in private investors’ holdings 
of long-term securities would drive up term premiums. The middle-right panel of the 
exhibit shows the model-implied total term premium effect, or TTPE, in each of the 
illustrative scenarios. In the staff’s model, moving to a short-target portfolio is 
projected to raise the 10-year term premium by about 25 basis points in the short run, 
relative to the Tealbook baseline, and by about 80 basis points as of 2035. To gain 
some intuition for the magnitude of these effects, consider that moving to an all-short 
portfolio would effectively mean using the entire balance sheet to conduct the 
opposite of a maturity extension program. But let me emphasize that these term 
premium effects are illustrative, subject to many important caveats, and reflect many 
simplifying assumptions—which Antoine will discuss in more detail momentarily. 
Because a large share of economic activity is tied to longer-term interest rates, an 
increase in term premiums would tend to require a lower setting of short-term interest 
rates to achieve any given configuration of macroeconomic outcomes. We used the 
Board staff’s FRB/US model to explore what this means for the relationship between 
the SOMA portfolio composition and the federal funds rate path. The bottom-left 
panel of the exhibit shows the policy rate path that is required to achieve the same 
inflation and unemployment rates, as in the Tealbook baseline, under each of the four 
illustrative portfolio scenarios. Over the first few years of the transition, a short-
target portfolio would require setting the federal funds rate about 25 basis points 
lower than in the Tealbook baseline to achieve the same macroeconomic outcomes, 
and in the long run, the policy rate would need to be about 85 basis points below the 
Tealbook baseline. All else equal, this would leave the Committee with less room to 
provide economic stimulus by reducing the funds rate in light of the lower bound. 
Antoine will now discuss some important ways in which these illustrative results 
might miss the mark. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
7 of 248
 
MR. MARTIN. Thank you, Sam. The magnitude of the tradeoff between MEP 
capacity and space to reduce the federal funds rate target is highly uncertain because 
of the caveats about term premium effect estimates that Sam mentioned earlier and to 
which I turn now. The estimated parameters in the term structure model that we use 
have large variances. Other term structure models could imply different estimates—
as could other models of the economy as a whole. The effect of changes in portfolio 
composition could also depend on whether the composition of the portfolio affects 
investors’ expectations about the future use of both conventional and unconventional 
monetary policy tools. Finally, the projected effects depend on whether and how the 
participants in the Treasury security market and in private markets change their debt 
issuance patterns in reaction to the FOMC’s decisions about the SOMA portfolio 
composition. 
In the results that we have shown you so far, we have assumed that the 
composition of the total debt issuance of both private borrowers and the Treasury is 
held constant when the SOMA portfolio changes. So, when the Federal Reserve 
chooses to hold shorter-duration securities, private investors end up holding more 
long-term securities, which puts upward pressure on term premiums. Under this stark 
assumption, portfolio changes have large and permanent effects on term premiums—
and, as a result, the appropriate federal funds rate path—because the reduction in the 
amount of duration in the SOMA portfolio corresponds one-for-one with increases in 
the amount of duration held by private investors. This modeling assumption is 
consistent with the staff’s analysis of the LSAP programs of the past decade. 
But it is possible, or even likely, that the Treasury security or private debt issuers 
would eventually adjust their behavior in response to changes in SOMA composition. 
For example, if the Federal Reserve permanently targets securities of a particular 
maturity for purchase, the Treasury might accommodate that target by issuing more 
securities of the targeted maturity. And, indeed, such a step by the Treasury would 
likely be consistent with the Treasury’s goal of funding the government at the lowest 
cost over time. If so, the effects of changes in SOMA holdings might differ across 
the short and long runs. In the short run, changing the portfolio composition could 
influence term premiums and require offsetting adjustments in the federal funds rate 
path. But in the long run, the amount of duration risk held by investors and the 
resulting term premiums and policy rate path might be invariant to the Federal 
Reserve’s asset holdings. The speed of the Treasury’s adjustment might also depend 
on whether the Federal Reserve changes its portfolio composition by. making open 
market purchases or by varying how maturing Treasury securities are rolled over at 
auction. 
The bottom-right panel of the exhibit shows how the funds rate path might evolve 
if, instead of the staff’s usual modeling assumptions, the term premium effects of a 
change in portfolio composition fade to zero over a decade and a half. In the near and 
medium terms, moving to a short-duration portfolio still requires lowering the federal 
funds rate to offset tighter financial conditions resulting from the change in SOMA 
holdings. But, over time, the differences in policy rate paths between scenarios 
become smaller, although the dynamics of the model mean that the rate paths don’t 
April 30–May 1, 2019
8 of 248
 
completely converge until after the end of the projection period. If term premium 
effects do dissipate in the way we’ve assumed here, it would be possible in the long 
run to structure the portfolio to provide more MEP space, without losing space for the 
interest rate tool. 
I’ll conclude by commenting on some potential market effects of announcing a 
plan to transition to a different portfolio composition. In the absence of sales, the 
SOMA’s actual composition would change only gradually as existing holdings 
mature. Still, the announcement of a transition could on its own have immediate 
effects on term premiums, bond yields, and asset prices more broadly as investors 
anticipate future changes in the portfolio. As we previously noted, in the staff’s 
model, a shift to a short portfolio is projected to increase the 10-year term premium 
by about 25 basis points on announcement. In the absence of any change in the 
policy rate, we would expect that 25-basis-point increase to show up in longer-term 
interest rates, and it would likely result in lower prices for the stock market and other 
risky assets, as well as lower inflation and less economic activity. However, if the 
FOMC simultaneously were to lower the federal funds rate path in order to keep 
macroeconomic outcomes unchanged, we would expect a much smaller net effect on 
longer-term yields and asset prices. 
Investors do sometimes react more strongly than expected to announcements 
about the SOMA portfolio. For example, a shift to a short portfolio is projected to 
increase the 10-year term premium about 85 basis points in the long run, and it’s 
possible that markets could move by that much immediately rather than gradually 
over time. The risk of an undesired or unexpected market reaction might be lowered 
by taking a measured and predictable approach to portfolio changes and 
communicating them well in advance. In addition, market reactions may depend on 
what inferences investors draw about overall policy strategy—both how the 
Committee plans to adjust the funds rate path, if changes in portfolio composition 
cause tighter financial conditions, and how the Committee intends to use its various 
policy tools in the event of a future economic downturn. Communicating choices 
about portfolio composition, and putting them in the context of the FOMC’s overall 
policy strategy, might therefore reduce the risk of market volatility. 
Our presentation has focused on some macro-financial issues that are important to 
your deliberations, but we want to note that the choice of portfolio composition has 
many additional dimensions that could be considered in future analysis. This 
concludes our prepared remarks. We would be happy to answer questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Questions for Antoine, Sam, or both? President 
Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you very much for a very interesting memo. And, I would 
say, my own staff and I had a spirited debate over the course of this past week talking about the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
9 of 248
 
model and implications for portfolio choice. And just to give you the context of what the debate 
was about, normally we think about financial variables not having much of an effect on the long 
run, but real things having an effect on the long run. 
When we think about monetary policy, most models are neutral in the long run but can 
have very substantial effects in the short run, and to understand the magnitude of those short-run 
effects, it’s really important to understand the labor market dynamics. So what are the 
assumptions that give you something other than neutrality? The Modigliani–Miller framework is 
another example in which it doesn’t matter if you switch debt and equity unless you have some 
other imperfections, and those imperfections actually give you some idea of what the scale of the 
effect is. So, for example, bankruptcy cost and taxes, if that’s the vector that you’re using to give 
the imperfection, then it kind of gives you a magnitude to how big the effect is. 
When I looked at your model and saw that you permanently changed the term premium 
and permanently changed the equilibrium rate by 85 basis points—which is a pretty big 
number—and think about that as being a permanent effect, not a neutral effect, it struck me as 
unusual that you would be able to switch our balance sheet enough to have permanent effects 
when most models in the long run don’t have monetary policy overall having that kind of 
permanent effect. Now, I understand you put a lot of caveats in the memo, and you talked about 
the caveats, and you provided the bottom-right panel as an example of thinking about what 
happens if this abates, but exactly how that happens and what the parameters are that generate 
that result are really important to think about for both the dynamics and the magnitude of the 
effect. 
So I was wondering whether you had as spirited a debate as we did among Board staff. 
And just to get a better context of kind of how you debated the magnitude and the importance 
April 30–May 1, 2019
10 of 248
 
that you were getting, understanding that you were given a difficult challenge—which is to meet 
the empirical results that we kind of saw when we actually did these things and still be able to 
talk about it in a reasonable way—could you give me a little more flavor of the debate that staff 
had about this model and kind of the long-run neutrality or lack of neutrality in this kind of 
model? 
MR. SCHULHOFER-WOHL. We certainly did have a very vigorous debate. We were 
continuing to debate it last night, actually. The issue, I think, really comes down to this question 
of how issuers of debt—the Treasury as well as private issuers of debt—might change their 
behavior in reaction to a permanent change in the SOMA portfolio. So the term structure model 
we use, which is basically the Li and Wei model, is a model in which there are demands for 
different types of debt, and then if the supply of debt at different maturities changes, that changes 
term premiums. So if we change our holdings and issuers of debt don’t change their behavior at 
all, then there’s a permanent change in the supply of debt at different maturities, and that changes 
term premiums. 
In contrast, if we say we are going to seek to hold debt of a certain type, as Antoine 
noted, that provides an incentive for somebody to issue that debt. And if they respond to it, then 
there might be less or no change in what is available for holding by private investors, and then in 
the term structure model that we use, there would be no change in term premiums once that 
reaction occurs. So the question is, really, what’s the nature of that reaction, how fast does it 
happen, and how does it depend on all the things that we do? 
It could depend, for example, on whether we’re changing our holdings by changing how 
we roll over at auction, which has particular effects on the Treasury’s issuance, versus making 
open market purchases—which would not directly affect what the Treasury is doing. So there’s 
April 30–May 1, 2019
11 of 248
 
just a whole lot of dimensions of understanding what this reaction is like that are clearly 
important to make progress on. We illustrated one example of what might occur, but you can 
conceive of others where the reaction is slower or faster. So we agree that this is a fundamental 
issue to better understand. 
MR. MARTIN. Just to add one quick thing, another factor that we mentioned, which I 
believe is important, is how people believe the FOMC’s reaction function changes, depending on 
the composition of the SOMA portfolio. If their expectation of future policy changes, then the 
effect on the term premium is also likely to change. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Yes, I just have a question. I was looking at these—a great 
memo, great charts, presentations. As I understand it, and this may be wrong, the Tealbook has 
an assumption—the black line in the upper right-hand figure—that we’re going to reduce the 
weighted average maturity (WAM) from eight and a half years to six years over a particular path. 
It gives you a very similar term premium path of your particular, gradual, proportional change. 
So if I were to do the thought experiment that we actually don’t reduce the WAM at all 
and keep it at eight and a half years as opposed to what’s in the Tealbook baseline and just say, 
you know, we’ll leave it at eight and a half forever, what would this look like? My guess would 
be that the total term premium effect, TTPE, would remain at—well, that’s my question. It’s 
currently minus 130 basis points. What would happen to it then? And then what would the 
policy rate path look like in that scenario? 
MR. SCHULHOFER-WOHL. The effect would be the opposite of the one we showed. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I’m asking about quantity. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
12 of 248
 
MR. SCHULHOFER-WOHL. We haven’t run that particular experiment. It would not 
be as large a difference as the shift from proportional to short, because staying where we are now 
versus going to the Tealbook baseline is a smaller move than that. So the lines would move in 
the opposite direction from what you see here for going to the short portfolio, but by not as 
much. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So my guess—just understanding how this model works—is 
that it would go from minus 130 to a more negative number. 
MR. SCHULHOFER-WOHL. Yes. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. And that it would stay at that more negative number. So if 
you say it goes to minus 140 or something like that, you would now have roughly 40, 50 basis 
points in the term premium effect in the long run lower, which would, based on my rough 
calculations from the memo, be a neutral interest rate that may be 40, 50 basis points higher than 
assumed in the Tealbook. Is that about right? 
MR. SCHULHOFER-WOHL. Yes, that’s correct. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I think just to try to keep in mind, the decisions we’re 
making here are not decisions—we’re not making decisions. But the experiments we’re thinking 
about are about shortening the maturity composition of the SOMA portfolio and, therefore, 
tightening policy. Another option could be if we maintained the current WAM. That would 
actually work in the opposite way. That’s all. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Fed at one time had a bills-only 
doctrine, and then, gradually, over the postwar era, switched to other ideas about its portfolio. 
Based on the analysis today, should we redo the macroeconomic history of the United States and 
April 30–May 1, 2019
13 of 248
 
reestimate our models to take account of the effects of the Fed’s balance sheet on the evolution 
of the economy over the postwar era? 
MR. MARTIN. That would be an interesting research project. 
MR. BULLARD. Well, I have never seen an analysis that said that the WAM of the Fed 
was an important variable in explaining this postwar evolution. 
MR. POTTER. That’s true, but it might be true that it was an important part. 
MR. BULLARD. Or another country. 
MR. POTTER. Yes. 
MR. MARTIN. There’s a lot of factors that would be at play, but it would be interesting 
to see to what extent data suggest that it contributed somewhat. 
MR. BULLARD. There aren’t confidence bounds in these pictures. If we put confidence 
bounds in, what would they look like? 
MR. SCHULHOFER-WOHL. It would be a lot. 
MR. BULLARD. Would they cover the entire chart? 
MR. SCHULHOFER-WOHL. The bounds around each line on the TTPE would be on 
the order of dozens of basis points. But if we produced bounds for the difference between those 
lines, it would be a lot smaller, because you’re using the same term structure model to produce 
each line. So we don’t think that the difference between those— 
MR. BULLARD. Fifteen years out, the confidence bounds would cover the entire range 
of possibilities. 
MR. SCHULHOFER-WOHL. But the bounds on the difference between the lines would 
not be enormous. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
14 of 248
 
MR. CLOUSE. President Bullard, I was just going to comment on—I haven’t done the 
exercise you’re suggesting, of course, but we have looked at the balance sheet. Our colleagues at 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York have produced a nice time series of the SOMA weighted 
average maturity over 100 years, and just as you say, during the ’40s, you know, we had very 
high holdings of bills, but of course, that was directed specifically at capping yields. So I would 
say that the policy, during the ’40s, anyway, was successful in capping Treasury yields. So it 
might be a little bit difficult to show that the variation over time had no effect on rates, which I 
took to be the point of your— 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Can I do it two-handed on this? I mean, let’s just remember 
that the Li and Wei model is actually estimated on data before the financial crisis, before QE. 
So, to answer your question, that model was looking at shifts in supply and shifts in the Treasury 
market and finding these effects, which are, I believe, consistent with our views of what the 
effects have been with QE. So it’s not the case we’re taking our QE experience and saying, 
“Therefore, we have a view on that effect.” It’s actually the other way. It’s like we have a 
framework that was estimated and gives us these effects before QE that seem roughly consistent. 
MR. POTTER. There’s also Operation Twist in the 1960s as well. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Right. Yes, right. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay, just—but there was Operation Twist in the ’60s, and there was a 
literature on that. I thought that literature basically came out to the view that that was neutral. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. No. 
MR. BULLARD. That’s what I— 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Eric Swanson has a wonderful paper on this. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
15 of 248
 
CHAIR POWELL. Simon. 
MR. POTTER. The scale is what’s important here. If the effect is small—for small 
amounts, if you just start scaling it up, it gets larger. That’s what the models are actually 
showing. We can disagree, and I think that’s what President Rosengren was saying, but they 
can’t really scale in a linear way like that. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a fascinating discussion, and I’m not 
confident that I’m following all of it. And maybe I could ask President Rosengren just to 
compare the intuition. So it sounded to me like you were making a pretty clear point that we’re 
talking about a change in nominal policy, and yet it’s having a real effect on the economy and 
over arbitrarily long horizons, and that’s a puzzle from thinking about monetary policy, where 
you wouldn’t think that it should have permanent effects on the economy. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Yes. So let me just follow up. These charts— 
MR. EVANS. Which is an insightful thing to point out. 
MR. ROSENGREN. These models go out to 2036, so it’s a pretty long run. So this is 
telling us of the really big equilibrium effects, and that clearly affects the dynamics as well. And 
so I certainly think that we have big effects, but I think they’re temporary, not permanent. And, 
as a result, a model that assumes that changing financial stocks have huge, real effects 
permanently seems not completely congruent with a lot of other financial market models that say 
that changing financial mixes or changing monetary policy do not have permanent effects on the 
real economy, for a variety of reasons, without putting in some imperfections. And those 
imperfections actually scale the magnitudes, both in the short run and in the long run, and usually 
those models do not have a big long-run effect. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
16 of 248
 
So when I think about a model that has very substantial change in the real interest rate in 
the long term, I wonder whether, without—I can imagine a situation like this, and you made 
clear some of the underlying assumptions, so you could have an extreme preferred habitat model. 
That would be one way to do it. You could have firms not being willing to offset it, so firms 
seeing a very large change in, for example, the term premium. If they’re risk neutral, you’d 
think they’d start issuing all at the short end rather than the long end. So it could be the 
Treasury; it could be the corporate sector. 
And, in effect, how much of effect you get is how long it takes them to make that 
adjustment. But in that kind of model, you’d have no effect in the long run, and, in effect, the 
size that you expect, both in the short run and the long run, depends on preferred habitats and 
how quickly people are willing to change their own maturity structure to offset what we did. But 
this is a very different model, because it’s an equilibrium model. So I just wonder whether this is 
the right model for understanding the observations that we have in the short run. And I guess I 
remain not completely convinced that by changing financial stocks, we’d have such a big 
magnitude on real things. I guess that was my underlying concern, and just to expand on— 
MR. EVANS. If I could add to that dilemma—the kinds of models that we’re appealing 
to are ones that we have become very comfortable with, where monetary policy is measured in 
terms of changes in interest rates, and we don’t think about carrying around financial stock 
variables or money. We call it monetary policy, because these are money market rates. But, you 
know, we don’t carry around a stock of money. And if we go back to the first time we tried to 
come up with the idea of what the portfolio balance effect was for QE1 and QE2, and we had to 
stop and think about the question: Was it the stock effect of how much we intended to do, or 
was it the flow effect? And, you know, as soon as your insight—which I think is a very good 
April 30–May 1, 2019
17 of 248
 
one—that we’re having monetary policy exert a seemingly permanent effect on real variables, 
we should stop and wonder what it is about the model. 
And maybe it’s the absence of these monetary stocks, which is morass for us to figure 
out, but maybe that takes us into an area in which we need to understand a little bit more about 
where the permanent effects come from and where there’s an adjustment that can be very long, 
and it could involve the price-level adjusting in a very stark way in order to make this all work 
out. But that just adds to the dilemma that I think you posed very nicely. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. So I guess that would lead me to maybe a follow-on question that relates 
to this. We’d have to make judgments about how the private sector will react. But I agree with 
President Rosengren. My guess is, over enough time, if term premiums change, they would 
react. We don’t have to guess as much on how the Treasury will react, and that I assume we 
could have some communication and get some insight from them. And I would have thought in 
the period ahead when there may be less capacity for fiscal policy in a downturn, they might be 
glad that we had this dry powder, and they could give us some insight into how they would adapt 
their issuance. I’m just curious if we have any sense of that, because that is a major assumption, 
as you said, all things being equal. I doubt they would be equal. I don’t know if we have any 
sense of that. 
CHAIR POWELL. I mean—tell me if this is wrong, I don’t think we have any sense of 
how they would react in normal times to a change in our portfolio. I think we do have a sense 
that—in the bad situation where we’re doing QE again—they might agree that they might move 
more slowly to re-lengthen the maturity of Treasury debt outstanding. There have been 
April 30–May 1, 2019
18 of 248
 
discussions about that. I’m not aware of any discussions about how they would react to normal-
times portfolio changes. Does anyone know differently? 
MR. CLOUSE. I don’t know differently, but, President Kaplan, one thing that we have 
discussed at length and not reached any answers on is exactly the point you’re raising, 
particularly on our securities holdings that are rolling over. They are just add-ons at Treasury 
auctions. They are not part of the competitive auction. So you could imagine a scenario in 
which the Treasury just hands us whatever we want as our add-on, and then the question is, 
would they respond to that to maintain the weighted average maturity of the total portfolio by 
issuing longer-term debt, which is implicitly what is being assumed in the model, to drive yields 
higher? And there are a lot of questions about whether the Treasury would really act in that way. 
And I’m sure that they will be discussing these kinds of issues in upcoming quarters. 
MR. KAPLAN. Just as a layman, my instinct would be, they would not do that. They 
would move to sterilize what we have done, and, therefore, it might mitigate your 25 to 85 basis 
point estimates, and that would have been my judgment. But just asking how you felt about it. 
MR. POTTER. Well, what they could do is issue more at the short end, for example. 
MR. KAPLAN. Right. That’s what I’m saying. 
MR. POTTER. But they will try to issue in the cheapest way that they can. 
MR. KAPLAN. And they’ve got so much to issue across the spectrum that there 
wouldn’t be a—I can imagine that’s what I would do if I were them, but okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? Before we start the go-round, I just want to 
underscore for a second the nondecisional nature of this. The year is young, and yet we have 
already made a number of consequential decisions regarding the balance sheet. These have been 
market-sensitive matters, and I’m glad that we have been able to thread our way through them 
April 30–May 1, 2019
19 of 248
 
without triggering adverse reactions. Now we have the federal funds rate unexpectedly moving 
up over the past couple of weeks, getting uncomfortably close to the top of the target range, and 
we’ll be discussing that a little later. Clearly, there has been a lot going on regarding the balance 
sheet, and it’s enough, it seems to me. I’m very pleased with the progress that we have made and 
with where we are on these issues, but I think it’s wise to defer decisions on the maturity 
composition of the balance sheet until after we finish the runoff on September 30. 
Markets will always be sensitive to news about the portfolio, but they may be even more 
while the balance sheet is still shrinking. Nonetheless, this is a great opportunity to begin 
discussing some of the key issues related to those decisions, as we will do today. And with that, 
let’s begin the go-round with President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also want to thank the staff for, again, 
continuing terrific work on this issue and very important discussion. I am generally supportive 
of a maturity structure that would allow us to undertake an effective maturity extension program 
should we find ourselves up against the lower bound on interest rates in the future. Indeed, like 
many, I suspect that outcome is more likely than not during the next downturn, given that our 
projection for the longer-term funds rate is currently between 2.5 and 3 percent. As we are all 
well aware, in past recession episodes, we typically lowered the funds rate by much more than 
that to achieve our policy goals. The quantitative effects of the maturity extension program 
really are hard to pin down with any certainty. But the program did appear to make monetary 
policy more accommodative and send a reassuring signal to the financial markets that 
policymakers are ready to use all available tools to achieve our goals. 
We should also keep in mind that LSAPs are always an alternative and, indeed, may have 
a bigger “bang for the buck” than maturity extension programs—though, of course, LSAPs 
April 30–May 1, 2019
20 of 248
 
would increase the size of the balance sheet. And I do struggle to imagine states of the world in 
which policy rates will be at zero and we would be content with a maturity extension program 
and not use an LSAP first. An LSAP seems to be our first line of attack. 
I do have some concerns, though. The first, which is actually very consistent with the 
comments that were just made in the question-and-answer period, is how our holdings of various 
maturities might affect the efficient functioning of financial markets. For example, at the end of 
2005, the SOMA portfolio held Treasury securities of less than one-year maturity that 
represented about 25 percent of similar maturity Treasury securities outstanding. Our balance 
sheet is now much larger, and if our allocation was similar to that in 2005, we would hold about 
40 percent of Treasury securities outstanding with a maturity of less than a year. 
I am also concerned about whether, given the anticipated size of our balance sheet, 
having a large “footprint” in the market for short-term Treasury debt might impede efforts to 
promote financial stability. There appears to be a strong demand, as we all know, for short-term 
safe assets, and investors have historically paid a premium for holding Treasury bills, which 
have, of course, money-like characteristics. The private sector, as we were just discussing, can 
also issue liquid short-term assets. But, as we saw in the financial crisis, those assets can become 
problematic and promote financial instability. 
I welcome further staff analysis that can clarify how the maturity structure of the SOMA 
portfolio might affect the efficient functioning of financial markets and macrofinancial risk. Of 
course, the future distribution of the Treasury’s security issuance could represent an important 
avenue whereby the SOMA portfolio could be substantially weighted toward the short end 
without any deleterious effects to the functioning of financial markets. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
21 of 248
 
Now, given the benefits to us and a lack of the cost to the Treasury—a lot of what we 
were just discussing—I would hope that, beyond getting insights from the Treasury on what they 
are going to do, we might be able to explore some kind of coordination with the Treasury in the 
future. Regarding the costs and benefits of approaching the longer-run maturity composition 
faster or slower, my preference is that we get there sooner rather than later, although I do not 
necessarily view the short-maturity scenario in the memo, and the speed at which it 
hypothetically is obtained in the accelerated approach, as desirable policy. It’s a great 
benchmark, but I can’t imagine that being our policy. I think that it provides a useful 
benchmark, but it is an extreme scenario, and I think we just recognize that it is a benchmark. 
More practical would be the long-run portfolio envisioned in the Tealbook where we 
match the distribution of outstanding notes and bonds but overweight on Treasury bills. My 
desire for a quicker transition relates to uncertainty about how long the current expansion might 
continue. As we saw at the end of last year, the economy seems somewhat vulnerable to 
negative sentiment, and the current expansion is already pretty long in the tooth. I recognize the 
possibility that shortening the duration of portfolio might put upward pressure on long-term 
rates. But I take the quantitative estimates of the term premium effects from the various 
approaches with several grains of salt, in view of the imprecision of these estimates. 
As well, the model differences between gradual versus accelerated approaches are really 
not that big to begin with, so my preference would be for a faster transition to the longer run, 
together with a healthy dose of communication to explain many, many times our plans and 
intentions. In doing so, we must, however, be mindful not to purchase so much of any security 
that we place undue stress on financial markets. As with the overall long-run composition, 
April 30–May 1, 2019
22 of 248
 
again, coordinating with the Treasury could allow the transition to be easier and, in some cases, 
more aggressive. 
I am also very open to running down the MBS on our balance sheet at a faster pace than 
envisioned in the memo or Tealbook baseline in order to speed up the transition. So would 
limited sales of MBS make a meaningful on the speed of transition? We should know the 
answer to that. As well, we should consider communicating the balance sheet plan we are 
considering and either put it out for comment or let the Desk discuss it with market participants 
to ensure they are very, very comfortable with this proposal before we do anything. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. As Keynes famously noted, the “long run is 
a misleading guide to current affairs. In the long run, we are all dead.” It is the second sentence 
that is more familiar, but it is the first sentence that I want to emphasize today. We should aim 
for a sustainable path, a long-run steady state. But life in the economy cannot be described as 
“steady.” As we move through time, the economy faces a series of unpredictable shocks and 
changes in the behavior of market participants, and, as a consequence, changes to policy settings. 
After all, we describe monetary policy as being data dependent. Thus, compared with the memo, 
I would prefer to place relatively more weight on the short run to medium run. Monetary policy 
should be for the living. 
In this respect, if we take the Tealbook as the baseline outlook, we are confronted with a 
projected path of the federal funds rate that, up to 2024, reaches only 2¾ percent. The real 
outlook associated with this federal funds rate is one of a prolonged growth recession of the kind 
we have yet to see in the post–World War II period. The Tealbook is well aware of the fragility 
April 30–May 1, 2019
23 of 248
 
of its baseline outlook, and in the newly produced “Conditional Distributions of Macroeconomic 
Variables 2 Years Ahead,” it notes that the distributions are skewed to the upside in the case of 
the unemployment rate and to the downside in the case of real GDP growth. I believe this is the 
economic context in which the discussion about the composition of the Federal Reserve’s 
balance sheet should take place. 
I appreciate the memo’s attention to the possibility that shortening the maturity of the 
portfolio will effectively reduce the equilibrium federal funds rate, and I also appreciate the fact 
that, should the shortening of the maturity occur in our lifetime, at least when measured in 
policymaking years, the reduction in the equilibrium federal funds rate will come at the worst 
possible time—namely, when the effective federal funds rate is already at low levels. But it is 
also important to consider the likelihood that, should recession occur in the environment 
projected by the Tealbook, a 275 basis point reduction in the federal funds rate will not be 
enough to offset even a modest-sized recession. 
An increase in the unemployment rate above its natural level of roughly 200 basis points 
would, per estimates that are consistent with FRB/US, require a monetary policy offset in the 
federal funds rate of roughly 400 basis points for about two years. In short, whether the 
equilibrium federal funds rate is at 2½ percent or at 1¾ percent, according to the memo estimates 
for the short-maturity portfolio, it may not make much of a difference from a practical 
standpoint. Policy is very likely to be constrained by the zero lower bound in the event of a 
recession even under the current maturity configuration, all skewed toward the long end of the 
spectrum of our portfolio. 
My biggest concern right now is that, with a SOMA portfolio containing no Treasury 
bills and relatively few short-term securities, the scope for implementing a sizable maturity 
April 30–May 1, 2019
24 of 248
 
extension program is quite limited, even as the chance of a near-term recession may be elevated. 
Having few short-term securities to exchange would likely force us to quickly undertake an 
LSAP program in the next recession. While I hope that future policymakers or a future Congress 
will see the wisdom in pursuing an asset purchase program in such circumstances, I would like to 
purchase some insurance against the possibility that we might be constrained in our ability to 
pursue LSAPs. As a result, in the near term, I would channel all the redemption flow into short 
maturities so that we have the capacity to conduct a maturity extension program when the next 
recession occurs. If we cannot build such capacity, we risk being constrained to follow a more 
timid response, and such hesitancy has not been helpful for the Japanese or European economic 
outcomes. 
The memo is careful to highlight the uncertainty surrounding the estimated effect on the 
term structure of changing the maturity structure of our portfolio. I agree that the uncertainty is 
large, and I think that there are risks associated with the current maturity composition of our 
portfolio. Also, a term structure that has a small slope is a problem for any financial institution 
that profits from maturity transformation. Many banks, particularly smaller banks, derive the 
bulk of their income from the short–long spread largely by borrowing at short-term deposit rates 
and lending at long-term rates. Thus, their income depends, in part, on the existence of a 
positive term premium. If the term premium is negative and they try to maintain the profit 
margin, it implies taking on more risk. 
An extreme example of this is the Norinchukin Bank, a large bank that focuses on 
fishermen and farmers in Japan. It has recently been publicly reported that the bank has amassed 
over $60 billion in triple-A tranches of CLOs. I doubt that fishermen in Japan realize that their 
funds are supporting highly leveraged transactions in the United States, but this is an example of 
April 30–May 1, 2019
25 of 248
 
how banks will reach for yield to maintain their returns. While this is an extreme example, 
negative term premiums likely encourage more movement into higher-risk activities, placing the 
economy at greater risk in the next recession. In sum, the term premium today is negative in part 
because of the composition of our balance sheet and that of other major central banks, which are 
highly skewed to holding long-term assets. 
In addition, the heightened probability of hitting the zero lower bound in the next 
recession has enhanced the value of taking insurance against this risk by buying long-term 
Treasury securities that have no credit risk and are not callable. The depressed term premiums 
not only expose us to financial stability risks, but also increase the risk that we will have very 
few short-term securities to swap when the next recession occurs, removing a tool from our 
arsenal that I believe was quite helpful in stabilizing the economy during the last downturn. 
Finally, the theoretical model presented by the staff does not include signaling effects, which I 
believe are much more significant during lower-bound periods and does not fully explain why 
term premiums are so depressed currently, which I believe can be offset by shortening our 
portfolio. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you. I continue to support moving toward a significantly shorter-
maturity Treasury portfolio. I do believe the policy space at the lower bound is valuable. I 
might also suggest that a short portfolio is actually more neutral than even a proportional one. 
By trading in securities that are closest to our liabilities, we leave it to the actions of the Treasury 
and private market participants to determine relative prices across the range of maturities. All 
that being said, the staff memo suggests that a shorter portfolio could come with a substantial 
April 30–May 1, 2019
26 of 248
 
price. This is driven by the large estimate of the effect of our balance sheet composition on the 
term premiums. 
The memo acknowledges the wide range of uncertainty around this estimate, and while I 
wouldn’t argue with the direction of the effects, I tend to believe it would be considerably 
smaller. The evidence we have suggests most of the effect is in the announcement effect, and 
this evidence comes from the lower-bound period, as opposed to the more normal environment 
we have now. I was struck by the fact that even the accelerated approach to a short portfolio 
took so long. We might well have three downturns before 2035. I might instead then offer a 
practical alternative that I think is comparable to that just suggested by President Rosengren. We 
need to invest in short-term Treasury securities to go to either the short or the proportional 
endpoints. 
So rather than announcing the endpoint, which could take a very long time to reach and 
could move markets, why not make a more limited announcement—announce that we plan to 
shorten our holdings by buying Treasury bills for, say, the next five years, while we continue to 
evaluate the longer-run alternatives for the portfolio? This would be a path to either end-state. It 
would minimize the announcement effect, which is a substantial part of the term premium risk, 
and it would give us time to better understand the models and the true effects. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d like to thank the staff for a very informative 
memo. It helped my thinking a lot. This is a complicated issue, and I recognize this is not a 
meeting for making a firm decision. There are many moving parts to consider when assessing 
how the maturity structure of our balance sheet might factor into monetary policy strategy. 
Obviously, the staff had to make a lot of assumptions to do the analysis in the memo, and it 
April 30–May 1, 2019
27 of 248
 
seems likely that the quantitative results are highly model specific—change the model, and we’re 
going to come up with different magnitudes. So there are many details to discuss if we were so 
inclined, but these caveats shouldn’t distract us from the basic message in the memo: There is no 
free lunch here. 
Shortening the balance sheet maturity to increase space for future maturity extension 
programs comes with some important costs. Top on the list is a reduction in the neutral federal 
funds rate. This means less policy room above the lower bound. In other words, the more 
ammunition we give ourselves to do MEPs, the more likely it is we will have to use them, 
because we will be closer to the lower bound. 
The staff’s excellent analysis points out that the difference in the neutral funds rate over 
the long run is unclear. The Treasury or the private sector might increase their supply of short-
term assets in a way that would offset the effect of a shorter-maturity portfolio on r*. But the 
eventual scope and scale of these changes are highly uncertain and would take some time to 
develop, and they could generate other costs. I’ll come back to this. I found figure 4, which is 
the bottom-left chart in the handout, useful to think about the r* issue. It depicts the federal 
funds rate paths for two portfolio strategies: one with a short-maturity target portfolio and a 
neutral funds rate a little above 1½ percent, and one with a proportional target portfolio and a 
neutral federal funds rate closer to 2½ percent. We need to ask which of these configurations 
would yield better macroeconomic outcomes over time. 
Because of the added cost of hitting the lower bound more frequently, for the short-
maturity strategy to come out ahead, it would have to perform better at the lower bound. That is, 
its larger MEP capacity would need to be more successful at propelling us out of the zero lower 
bound than the actions we could take with a proportional balance sheet. Indeed, given the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
28 of 248
 
potential differences in r*, the short-maturity configuration probably would have to be a lot more 
successful in battling the zero lower bound to offset its increased frequency of hitting the 
effective lower bound. We’re going to set ourselves up to have to use this capacity more often, 
because we’ve reduced the ammunition we have with just short-term policy rates. I have trouble 
seeing this being the case. The only way I see the short-maturity portfolio being superior here is 
if the Committee felt constrained from executing adequately sized LSAPs when faced with the 
zero lower bound. That is, if our concerns over increasing the size of the balance sheet were so 
large that they overrode doing what was needed to achieve our dual-mandate objectives. 
Some have mentioned political-economy costs that might come with a large expansion of 
our balance sheet—not today, but in the past. And there are potential concerns related to 
financial instability. These risks clearly need to be considered, but I just don’t see them as 
overwhelming the need to act aggressively when confronted with the lower bound. In tough 
circumstances, doing what it takes means just that, and this would include doing substantial 
amounts of LSAPs—notably, open-ended QE. 
There are a couple of other reasons why I am more sympathetic to the proportional target 
portfolio. I think a portfolio in line with the maturity structure of Treasury securities outstanding 
appropriately keeps us at arm’s length from the fiscal authority’s debt financing decisions. In 
addition, I am concerned about how financial markets might respond to the Federal Reserve 
soaking up a sizable quantity of safe short-term assets if we went to a short-maturity portfolio. 
There clearly is substantial demand for such securities, and if the Treasury doesn’t do so, the 
private sector might start creating a lot more of them on their own. Although more of these 
privately created securities could ultimately reduce term premiums and help increase short-run 
April 30–May 1, 2019
29 of 248
 
r*, these assets may also increase financial instability. We saw this all too well during the 
financial crisis when the safety of private short-term assets came into question. 
Finally, I’d like to come back to the fundamental question I raised earlier. Do we really 
think constraints on our LSAP capacity are so big that a proportional target portfolio will deliver 
worse macroeconomic outcomes than a low-r* short-maturity portfolio? If so, how would the 
public view this? I think the public would see us as hesitant to do what it takes when faced with 
the possibility of a prolonged stay at the lower bound. Such private-sector expectations of 
constrained policy responses can only be a negative factor when it comes to extricating us from 
the zero lower bound. 
Given what I’ve seen so far, I favor the proportional target portfolio. I think I’m in the 
minority so far. I would need to see some pretty convincing new analysis before I could accept 
the short-maturity portfolio as a viable option. I’m thinking here about results from stochastic 
simulations that not only take account of the effective lower bound and the ex post effects of 
nonconventional policies, but also consider the influence of our perceived capacity and 
willingness to use MEPs and LSAPs on household and business expectations. I realize this is 
asking a lot, and it might take a good deal of time to do so, but if we are contemplating such a 
major change in our operating framework, we first need to be confident that a short-maturity 
portfolio could, indeed, be more likely to deliver superior macroeconomic outcomes. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. And thank you to the staff for excellent and 
timely work in this memo. I learned a lot from it. With r* now low and likely to remain low for 
some time, we may need to use the balance sheet policy in a future downturn. The maturity 
April 30–May 1, 2019
30 of 248
 
extension program could be an attractive option in providing needed accommodation in a future 
lower-bound episode. However, the scenarios in the memo associated with a shorter-maturity 
portfolio option give me some pause and, apparently, some others around the table have the same 
reaction. In these scenarios, the term premium jumps immediately, around 25 basis points, and 
then rises over time by up to 80 basis points. These are really big, big numbers. 
This apparently comes from a large stock effect with the market realizing and pricing it 
up front that we’ll eventually have a portfolio with a much shorter weighted average maturity. 
Now, as the memo highlights, the stock effect is hard to pin down with precision, and, like 
others, I suspect that the confidence intervals would be quite large and could be mitigated by 
other factors, including expectations, supply response, and I’ll return to that in a moment. 
Targeting a proportional composition with a gradual transition does not result in an estimated 
large effect in the term premium, and in this perspective, it is the least risky, but at the cost of 
taking a very long time to get the WAM of the portfolio down even to the market levels. 
In the short-maturity portfolio case, the funds rate consistent with the Tealbook baseline 
implies a policy rate path that is more accommodative because of this projected jump in the term 
premium—a point that Vice Chair Williams and others around this table have noted: There is no 
free lunch. In other words, if the term premium effect of upfront announcing a short-maturity 
portfolio is large enough, then the extra policy space to run a future maturity extension program 
comes directly at the expense of less policy space now. So there are several key questions, but 
one key question for us is, if we were to consider aiming for a short-maturity portfolio, how large 
would these effects on our baseline funds rate path be today? 
Now, my prior, before reading the memo, was that the likely term premium effect of 
announcing a short-maturity portfolio would not be as large as projected in the staff memo. But, 
April 30–May 1, 2019
31 of 248
 
obviously, if that estimate is accurate, this would be a very relevant consideration to us in 
thinking about our options. Now, to its credit, the memo raises issues about the robustness of 
these estimates, and these include large standard errors around parameter estimates; model 
selection choices; and expectations about future supply response, including the decisions of the 
Treasury. The large initial increase in the term premium under the short-maturity portfolio 
assumes that the market is completely surprised by this outcome, but I guess I don’t know what 
the market is currently assuming about our actions, and there is some chatter already in line with 
a short tilt to the SOMA portfolio. If markets are already pricing in a significantly shorter-
duration portfolio, then the increase in the term premium could be small or even zero initially. 
But, again, the standard errors are large, in our particular view. 
I think related to this point, and I think several of you have mentioned this before, is that 
our communications on this particular topic would need to be very carefully calibrated and 
disciplined, because these are challenging issues for us, and they are even more challenging 
issues for others of good or bad will. Long-term bond yields and term premiums fluctuate for 
reasons other than the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet, including Treasury security supply, 
global risk appetite, global interest rate differentials, volatility, and emerging-markets disruption, 
and I could add more. 
An aggressive push to a short-maturity portfolio could require us to explain, in the future, 
an interest rate increase episode unrelated to our actions—why such a decision is not quantitative 
tightening and is not the sole cause for any increase in Treasury yields that may occur in coming 
years for any reason. We also need to be careful to manage expectations about our toolkit. If we 
are changing the composition of our portfolio to provide an MEP option in the future, our 
primary tool today is still the policy rate. Keeping expectations focused on the policy rate as the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
32 of 248
 
primary tool might be an argument in favor of a proportional portfolio option. And also note that 
even with a proportional approach, as shown in figure 3, the policy space for a future MEP 
program would be comparable, at roughly 4 percent of GDP, to the size of the MEP program in 
2011 and ’12. 
I’d like to add one more thing before I conclude. I’d also like to talk a little bit about an 
option that’s not explicitly discussed in the memo, but it bears some similarity with the 
proportional portfolio accelerated. This option would be for us not to think so much about the 
bucket-by-bucket decomposition of our SOMA portfolio, but just focus on getting the maturity 
or the duration right. So, for example, a portfolio that’s 60 percent 10-year Treasury securities 
and 40 percent 1-year Treasury securities would have an average duration and WAM of about 6 
years. We could get there, certainly, a lot faster if we just focused on duration and not on the 
bucket-by-bucket composition and would have about $1.4 trillion worth of MEP space at the 
current level of GDP. And it looks like, from the chart here, we could get there in 5 or 6 years. 
So, again, these are complicated issues, but if we move further down this road, we might want to 
think of a variant of this, which is just focusing on the WAM of the portfolio and not the 
individual composition of the buckets. 
In conclusion, thank you to the staff. This was a good first start at this complex question, 
and I look forward to further such conversations. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Let me start by saying, I really appreciate that we are discussing this today, 
well in advance of any decisions. It allows us to have many more careful deliberations with 
additional staff memos, which I’m sure you’re thrilled to hear about. I would also like to thank 
the staff for the useful background memo. For me, too, it laid out very clear options—although 
April 30–May 1, 2019
33 of 248
 
quite stylized, as many have mentioned—and it gave us a nice way to think about the cost–
benefit framework and to compare the tradeoffs. And what was clear from the memos is: There 
is no free lunch. So I thought that was quite useful. 
Now, in terms of the details, I’m going to echo President Evans and say that it’s really 
important when we think about the details of balance sheet composition to have an overall view 
of our monetary policy strategy. For the long haul, the maturity structure of the SOMA portfolio 
should be designed to provide optimal support for the implementation of whatever strategy we 
have. Our primary tool is the funds rate. We’ve communicated that. We believe that. And here 
the zero lower bound is the most significant risk we face, that we could encounter future 
constraints there. When we are constrained at the ELB, I view forward guidance, then QE or 
LSAPs, and finally MEP as the stack ranking for how we would use our tools, in part because 
maturity extension programs seem less potent with their weaker signaling effects, et cetera, so 
that would put an MEP last for me. As a result, I view making space for potential MEP 
programs as useful—but not a first-order consideration in our deliberations. And as the staff 
memo describes and Sam mentioned, even if we gradually move to a proportional portfolio, we 
will have more room as a percentage of GDP for MEP programs in coming periods than we had 
in either 2011 or 2012. 
When I back up from all of that, while the simulations may be not quite right and there 
are many details and caveats that we’ve already learned about, I did see it as helping us figure 
out that a risk-management strategy between the two policy options and policy space writ large 
over the balance sheet or over our tools is important. 
Now, of course, there are other important considerations in choosing a portfolio duration, 
and one issue is this concept of financial neutrality. As a public-sector institution, our decisions 
April 30–May 1, 2019
34 of 248
 
affect the supply of debt available for the private sector. When we purchase longer-term 
Treasury securities and issue short-term liabilities like reserves, we alter the maturity structure of 
assets available to the private sector. Essentially, we are putting a wedge between the Treasury’s 
decision about what to issue—its debt management—and what the private sector is actually able 
to hold. So being neutral in this regard would call for shortening our duration to minimize this 
wedge, leaving steady-state debt management to the Treasury. And I think this is a relevant 
concern, but one that should inform but not dictate our long-run maturity structure. 
Whatever we ultimately decide, as many people have said about our long-run portfolio, in 
the short and medium term we need to continue to emphasize that our balance sheet discussions 
are technical in nature, in the background, and not a communication of the stance of monetary 
policy. This will be especially important if we move to a short-maturity portfolio, since the 
move may be interpreted as active tightening rather than just trying to get to a normal place—
which we can understand, but the markets have had a history of misinterpreting. So, to my mind, 
this is consistent with pushing out our decisions or transition to next year, well after we’ve seen 
how the economy evolves. 
Finally, when we do communicate our longer-run plans for the maturity composition of 
our balance sheet, I’m going to go back to something President Harker said. It would be 
important to reiterate and reiterate and reiterate that these choices do not preclude increasing the 
size of our balance sheet in the future; do not signal anything about our monetary policy 
implementation framework; and, importantly, are not part of the stance of monetary policy. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
35 of 248
 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have several brief remarks on the 
assessment of the maturity extension program. I’m going to recap a version of remarks that I’ve 
made here before and at the Booth School event in New York City in February. There I argued 
that the leading theory of balance sheet policy for the United States is that it’s a signaling theory 
and a signaling effect. My reading of the empirical evidence is that it’s the signaling effects that 
have been the strongest. I realize that there’s a wide variety of views on that. The basic idea is 
that when we’re constrained by the effective lower bound, quantitative easing is effective, but 
only because it has a signaling effect. It means that a central bank is going to be lower for 
longer, and that’s how it worked, and that’s why we got pretty large effects here in the United 
States and, I think, both in Europe and Japan over the past eight years or more. 
I will mention that it’s unclear the next time there’s a downturn whether we will actually 
need to do as much policy action on this dimension, because presumably the private sector would 
already believe that we’re going to be lower for longer if we hit the effective lower bound again. 
So I think that’s something to keep in mind when we’re discussing how much policy space we’re 
really going to need in the next downturn, taking into account the fact that we’ve built up 
credibility the first time around during the lower-bound episode that we just got through. 
Now, when you move away from the effective lower bound, quantitative easing or 
quantitative tightening no longer sends a signal about the future direction of short-term interest 
rates. There the policy rate is already off the effective lower bound. The Committee is already 
saying what the future direction of the short-term rate is going to be. So the balance sheet policy 
one way or another is not really sending any more signal than what you’re already sending. And 
this is why I argued that quantitative tightening (QT) is not QT in the current environment. And 
April 30–May 1, 2019
36 of 248
 
this, in my mind, is why this Committee has been able to successfully reduce the size of the 
balance sheet since 2017 without any market effects, at least up until last December. 
I would say, there’s a caveat to this whole argument, which was brought up also at the 
Booth conference, which involves international considerations. You have to remember that these 
other central banks are still at the effective lower bound, and presumably the various types of 
policies that they’re undertaking are sending signals about their future short rate policy and 
therefore could come back to influence policy here in the United States. I thought that was a 
good point that was made and an important consideration here. So, in this context, I have viewed 
the maturity extension program undertaken by this Committee as markedly less effective than 
quantitative easing. It’s not clear that any signal is sent by the MEP. It’s possible that you could 
get minor effects if markets are distorted, as it would be in the middle of the financial crisis—
let’s say, 2009—but markets today are not distorted in a financial crisis sense, and the memo is 
not contemplating that kind of distortion. 
My baseline would be that, based on a signaling theory of why all of this is working, that 
this would have no effect at all. The empirical evidence and the anecdotal evidence seems to 
suggest that an MEP produces minor effects or possibly zero effects. And, having lived through 
it myself and watched market reaction at the time, I really think it didn’t really do very much. It 
didn’t seem to be a major topic in financial markets, perhaps because of the private-sector 
reaction that’s been discussed around the table here, that the supply effects are undone by the 
private sector, which would come into the way the model is constructed. With this baseline 
assessment, I would say we should be able to undo the maturity extension program that we 
undertook a few years ago to lengthen the duration of our portfolio. We should be able to undo it 
April 30–May 1, 2019
37 of 248
 
today without consequence. So if you just took that point of view, then you should go quickly, 
and some have argued that. 
On the other hand, there’d be no reason to create policy space for a future MEP since it’s 
not very effective in any case, and there’s the possibility it could be misinterpreted by the private 
sector. The policy space is evidently 4 percent of GDP anyway, which would be plenty. I agree 
with President Daly in the kind of ranking of the importance of these various policies: forward 
guidance first, QE second, and then comes a maturity extension program. So this is kind of low 
on the list of possible alternative policies once the effective lower bound is encountered. 
So I would say overall, then, that we could move very gradually toward our desired 
maturity composition of the SOMA portfolio and leave the composition of the Treasury portfolio 
up to the Treasury and not try to combat them by changing the asset composition in the hands of 
the public. I think if we want ammunition for a future downturn, we should be looking at 
potential quantitative easing programs, and for that we’d have to reduce the size of the balance 
sheet more than we already have. The Committee has discussed that on many occasions. I think 
we have probably got to a good place on that. So I’d leave it at that, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to the staff for the great 
memo and great work on this and for this discussion. So, to start off, I respect and was taken by 
the estimates of 25 to 85 basis points on the term premium. And in this regard, I guess I have a 
philosophy to be risk averse or do no harm in whatever decision we make. 
Having said all of that, I have a question, which is, couldn’t we make gradual and well-
telegraphed changes in shortening the maturity distribution of SOMA holdings and work with 
the Treasury and talk to them and coordinate with them in sterilizing the effects of these changes 
April 30–May 1, 2019
38 of 248
 
in the term premium by them adjusting the maturity distribution of their issuance? In other 
words, I’d love us to do more in trying to figure out if we could work with the Treasury and 
coordinate with them to minimize these term premium and ultimately r* implications. Maybe 
we can’t, but I would love for us to explore this. I worry that one of the things that we are very 
good at, and we’ve got the ability to do much more easily than the Treasury, is change the 
maturity distribution of securities held by the non-Fed public quickly and at large scale. That is 
not something that I think the Treasury can do. We are well positioned to do it. 
And I am very worried, as we deal with lower-bound encounters, that it’s going to be 
important that we have this tool, notwithstanding what President Bullard just said—you know, I 
hope we explore his points more. I do worry, actually—and it may be just I am spending too 
much time in northern California—that we are not going to be able to increase the size of the 
balance sheet very easily, and I think there is going to be quite a debate in this country about our 
ability to increase the size of our balance sheet. I think there will be a debate particularly if we 
haven’t shown an ability to unwind the effects of increasing the size of our balance sheet, and the 
fact that we have a much larger balance sheet today than we did back in ’08, and that if we aren’t 
able to unwind the maturity effects of what we did, I think it might reinforce for those people 
who say, “Boy, you guys should not be increasing your ‘footprint,’ because we’re going to have 
to live with this indefinitely.” 
So I’m fearful that we may actually, in the next downturn, have to use our existing 
balance sheet, and we may not have the ability to greatly increase the size of the balance sheet. 
And for me, that means being well positioned and means gradually shortening the average 
maturity of the SOMA portfolio during good times so that we can sharply increase it if we decide 
to, if we come up against the zero lower bound. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
39 of 248
 
These are more questions than answers, but my first priority, if we could do it, would be 
to gradually work toward shorter maturities. If we can’t do that, then maybe we can do some 
variation for a portion of the portfolio, get there, and we’ll have the debate when the time comes 
whether a maturity extension is fruitful. But I kind of feel very uncomfortable that if we don’t 
make these changes or push ourselves more on this, I am concerned that we won’t have this tool 
at all, and I think we need to at least have this tool as an option. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also want to thank the staff for their research 
and memo, which were both very helpful to my thinking on this issue. I will start with the 
second question on what I perceive to be the benefits and costs of approaching the longer-run 
portfolio composition faster or more gradually. In my view, adjustments to the portfolio 
composition should be made with an eye toward a long-term strategy. Whether we proceed 
quickly or more gradually, it will be several years before we’re able to significantly alter the 
maturity structure of our portfolio. Even a rapid transition would not give us any more policy 
space in the next few months or quarters. 
Rapid changes, however, could pose a greater risk of unexpected sharp moves in asset 
prices. In addition, if we are going to change the composition of the assets that we want to hold, 
it’s important, as others have noted, that we communicate our intentions very clearly and with 
advance notice to give the Treasury and market participants ample time to take on board the 
information and respond accordingly. The Treasury’s long-held principle of gradual and 
predictable changes in debt issuance have seemed to serve it well. And unless circumstances 
change considerably, should the Federal Reserve become a source of volatility in the Treasury 
securities market, and would that challenge the principle of their predictable actions? 
April 30–May 1, 2019
40 of 248
 
For the first question on macroeconomic considerations, the central question raised by the 
staff’s memo is this: If we decide to hold more short-term Treasury securities in order to gain 
policy space for the maturity extension program at a later date, will we end up driving up long-
term interest rates and be forced to lower the federal funds rate, diminishing the capacity for us 
to use our primary tool for monetary policy? The answer likely depends on how the Treasury 
adjusts to our announced strategy. If they issue more of the short-term debt that we aim to 
purchase, the upward pressure on term premiums could be minimized, which would likely lessen 
the need for us to lower the federal funds rate in response. 
As we continue to consider this issue—as others have noted—I will find it helpful to see 
further analysis from the staff on how Treasury security issuance has related to changes in the 
Federal Reserve’s holdings in the past so that we can better anticipate what might occur under 
this approach. I would also be interested in seeing further analysis of how the portfolio 
composition relates to our overall long-term strategy for monetary policy. As I said before, 
changes in the portfolio will take a long time. In fact, if our long-term goal is to hold a shorter 
maturity portfolio, we might never fully achieve that goal, because events could occur in the 
meantime that would warrant another MEP. 
In that respect, the decision we would make is not whether to permanently have a 
proportional portfolio composition or to permanently have a short one. It would be more about 
whether we want to actively adjust the maturity of the portfolio over time to support our 
macroeconomic goals—perhaps lengthening the maturity when that is necessary to support the 
economy during downturns and then shortening the maturity during good times to build capacity 
for the future—or whether we prefer to have a more stable maturity composition regardless of 
where we are in the business cycle. Especially as we head into our review of our monetary 
April 30–May 1, 2019
41 of 248
 
policy strategy tools and communications, it would be valuable to have further analysis of how 
these different long-term approaches for using the portfolio might affect the economy and our 
ability to achieve our goals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the staff memo acknowledges, the 
tradeoffs in choosing a longer-run portfolio composition are complex and highly uncertain, and 
they depend on estimated models of the term premium, the unpredictable reaction of market 
participants and the Treasury, and other unknowns. That means both a decision about this and 
the communication is going to be very challenging. Historically, the composition of the portfolio 
reflected the desire for market neutrality and liquidity. The principle of market neutrality 
allowed the supply of securities issued by the Treasury, and private-sector demand for these 
securities, to drive relative market prices. Under the principle of liquidity, the Federal Reserve 
pursued a portfolio with a substantial amount of Treasury bills, which could be sold quickly, if 
needed, to sterilize liquidity injections in a crisis. 
Today, with our expanded balance sheet and floor operating system, holding a liquid 
portfolio to sterilize future asset purchases is no longer needed. Instead, liquidity is potentially 
desirable for its option value, should a future maturity extension program be warranted. But 
moving toward a shorter-duration portfolio, as others have noted, would have uncertain effects 
on term premiums and the related stance of monetary policy. And the efficacy of exercising the 
option of maturity extension in an encounter with the effective lower bound is uncertain but, in 
my view, likely limited. 
Given these uncertainties, it seems appropriate to aim for a longer-run portfolio 
composition that is neutral, one that is similar to the universe of outstanding Treasury securities. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
42 of 248
 
Absent a financial crisis, this approach would allow the Treasury to determine the maturity 
structure of outstanding debt and private market participants to determine its relative price with 
little or no influence from the composition of our holdings. The speed with which we move 
toward a target portfolio appears to be of secondary importance. However, in view of the 
similarity of the estimated term premium effects under either the gradual or accelerated 
approach, I see little downside in moving at an accelerated pace toward a longer-run target 
portfolio. 
Looking ahead, as we continue the discussion of portfolio composition, I would be 
interested in better understanding how our holdings of MBS may be influencing and possibly 
distorting pricing in the Treasury bond market. In particular, how do we define a market-neutral 
portfolio while holding substantial quantities of MBS? I also support, as the Chairman has 
noted, pushing this decision out. But as I look at reserve balances continuing to decline and the 
funds rate continuing to increase relative to the IOER rate, I do think it would be helpful to have 
a strategy in place to guide future asset purchases when we need to begin accommodating trend 
increases in nonreserve liabilities and possible increases in reserve demand. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I thank the staff as well for the helpful analysis 
of the tradeoffs between holding a SOMA portfolio composed of shorter-term Treasury securities 
and one that is of longer duration. The general contour of the factors is pretty straightforward. 
Holding a portfolio of maturity that is similar to that of outstanding Treasury debt—the 
proportional target portfolio—is the most neutral in terms of the market, and that has some 
appeal. On the other hand, a shorter-duration portfolio would give the Committee more room to 
use the maturity extension program to lengthen the maturity structure without affecting the size 
April 30–May 1, 2019
43 of 248
 
of the portfolio. It would be an additional tool to add accommodation once the federal funds rate 
has been brought down to its effective lower bound. 
Given that our nontraditional policy tools are quite limited, having this tool more 
available, in addition to LSAPs, also has appeal. And I think President Kaplan’s view, that if we 
don’t shorten the portfolio composition we may actually face more opposition to using LSAPs in 
the future, is also worth considering. At the same time, the memo suggests that the tradeoff is 
less straightforward than it might seem at first. Conceptually, because term premiums may be 
higher if we held a shorter-duration portfolio, the federal funds rate to achieve any given 
macroeconomic outcome would need to be lower. This means the probability of hitting the 
lower bound would be somewhat higher under a shorter-duration portfolio. Thus, although there 
might be more ability to use the MEP if we target a short-duration portfolio, we might also find 
ourselves in the position of having to use it more often. 
The magnitudes of these effects, however, are very uncertain, as the memo suggests. It 
would be useful to see the confidence bands on the figures in the memo. I suspect that there may 
be little statistical difference in the paths illustrated for the Treasury yields and the path of the 
funds rate. In addition, the effect on term premiums in normal times may be minimal. If a large 
part of the effective balance sheet policy comes through signaling effects rather than via portfolio 
balance effects, as research by Michael Bauer and Glenn Rudebusch suggests, then the duration 
of the SOMA portfolio could have little effect on term premiums in normal times. If so, there 
would be little difference in the magnitude of the federal funds rate under the two portfolio 
duration scenarios. Moreover, as the memo suggests, how the U.S. Treasury changes its 
issuance also matters for the effects on term premiums. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
44 of 248
 
These considerations would push me toward favoring a shorter-duration portfolio, as it 
would make the MEP more available, with little effect on the likelihood of hitting the effective 
lower bound. But I must say, this isn’t a strong preference, as the staff analysis also suggests 
that even under the longer-duration portfolio there would be as much MEP capacity as a 
percentage of GDP as we used in the 2011–12 period. 
In some sense, our targeted composition may be a moot point. According to the staff’s 
analysis, regardless of which longer-run portfolio composition we prefer, a gradual transition to 
our targeted portfolio will take 15 years or longer. During this long period, the odds are not 
insignificant that negative economic shocks will mean we will have to begin using our balance 
sheet tools again. And we may never get to our targeted portfolio composition. 
So my preference would be to transition more quickly for a targeted portfolio by 
overweighting our purchases of Treasury bills during the transition. Now, we wouldn’t 
necessarily have to limit our purchases only to Treasury bills, as under the staff’s accelerated 
approach, because we don’t want to absorb too much of the Treasury bill market. But moving 
more quickly would give us a better chance of getting closer to our targeted composition before 
the next downturn. 
Finally, I would like to make two suggestions for future work as we move toward a future 
decision. First, it would be useful to explore the effects on markets of reducing our MBS 
holdings more quickly than currently envisioned. And, second, recent experience suggests that 
some market participants already believe that changes in our balance sheet are having effects on 
the market and on the stance of monetary policy. So I agree with Governor Clarida and others 
that how we communicate whatever we decide on our portfolio will be important, and we should 
start thinking through those communications now. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
45 of 248
 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss the 
long-run composition of the balance sheet and the analysis produced by the staff that is helping 
structure our thinking. 
It would be preferable to have ample time to debate this complicated issue, although I 
think we should advance at least the part of our deliberations that is targeted on shorter-term 
reinvestments, as we may need to be in a position to describe our initial reinvestment plans 
sooner than we might have thought if it turns out that the steep part of the demand curve is 
encountered earlier than anticipated. 
Before looking at the specific options on the table, it is useful to recall why this matters, 
some general principles for thinking about it, and how the composition of the balance sheet, in 
particular, fits into our overall framework for discussions about both monetary policy and 
financial stability. Providing clarity on where along the yield curve we intend to focus our 
purchases is important in providing clarity to market participants, and of course the key reason 
the composition of the balance sheets matters is that it may affect relative interest rates at 
different parts of the maturity spectrum, depending on the size of our “footprint” in the market. 
Before the financial crisis, our predecessors didn’t give much thought to these 
considerations, largely because control over short-term interest rates, and to some extent 
expectations, were felt to give the Committee adequate influence over aggregate demand. But, 
with the growing recognition that we’re in a low interest rate environment, the balance sheet and 
its composition loom larger. Just as, during the crisis and its aftermath, the federal funds rate 
reached its effective lower bound and the Committee found that it was necessary to use 
purchases of longer-dated assets to provide sufficient support to the economy. Both the SEP 
April 30–May 1, 2019
46 of 248
 
projections and market pricing anticipate we will remain in this kind of environment, which 
implies more time spent at the effective lower bound. 
In this environment, there are four considerations that are influencing my thinking about 
the longer-run composition and the transition path. First, as we have discussed and as the memo 
nicely illustrates, balance sheet composition choice in the long run could have implications for 
the amount of conventional policy space relative to the amount of space for maturity extensions. 
Also, the matter of the yield curve and financial stability also may have implications for our 
current monetary policy stance—and, ultimately, for our framework governing monetary policy 
more generally. 
The staff analysis focuses on the tradeoff between the relative space for conventional and 
maturity extension program policies. It provides a useful, clean, conceptual tradeoff between 
stylized options, but to do so it makes strong assumptions not only regarding how issuers of debt 
might change their behavior in response, but also about term premium effects on announcement 
of those changes in composition. And it’s important to keep those assumptions in mind as we 
deliberate. In particular, in this context, if the Treasury’s security issuance doesn’t change, then 
the tradeoff between conventional policy space and the space to undertake maturity extension is 
essentially one-for-one. Shifting our portfolio toward shorter-duration Treasury securities 
essentially steepens the yield curve, but at the expense of compression at the short end. The 
Committee has stated that the interest on excess reserves is our primary policy tool, so 
safeguarding conventional policy space would argue in favor of moving toward a proportional 
maturity. If, instead, the Treasury were to issue more short-run securities to offset that 
reallocation toward the shorter end, then the compression of policy space at the short end would 
be commensurately smaller, which would make the short-maturity option a much more attractive 
April 30–May 1, 2019
47 of 248
 
choice. As others have said, it’s therefore crucial that we gain greater clarity on what the 
Treasury would likely do in response. 
Regarding financial stability, one clear risk with moving to a short-maturity portfolio, if 
the Treasury doesn’t increase its issuance on the short end, would be the potential for greater 
issuance of short-term assets by the private sector. As we saw in the financial crisis, there are 
risks associated with privately-issued short-term debt, particularly if markets consider those a 
close substitute for government-issued debt. That financial stability risk could be an important 
consideration for me. 
On the other hand, leaning toward a proportional or longer-dated weighted average 
maturity portfolio may encourage greater reach-for-yield behavior. The benefit of greater policy 
space at the short end would be at the expense of a flatter yield curve. And as we have discussed 
in the context of the Financial Stability Report and elsewhere, a flat or even negatively tilted 
yield curve may encourage stretched asset valuations and high leverage, which may lead to an 
amplification of financial stability shocks. I would also want to give some thought to the 
implications of adopting an approach that, at least in the staff analysis, would tend to flatten the 
yield curve, all else being equal, making yield curve inversions more likely, especially in view of 
the strong signal that private-sector participants tend to take from the slope of the yield curve in 
judging recession probabilities. 
A third point is that the memo importantly addresses the question of the speed at which 
the portfolio reaches its desired long-run composition under the double-neutral approach. It 
takes a very long time to reach a weighted average maturity that is similar to the market 
portfolio. The alternative accelerated option would seek to achieve a market-weighted average 
maturity in only five years, which would mean concentrating purchases exclusively at the short 
April 30–May 1, 2019
48 of 248
 
end initially, and it would achieve that WAM through a barbell-shaped portfolio—quite different 
from our ultimate goal. This discussion serves to highlight that third critical consideration, 
which is the important potential interaction between the extent and speed with which we seek to 
shorten the maturity composition of our holdings and implications for financial conditions during 
the transition period. 
Finally, the consideration of the long-run maturity composition should take into account 
the broader review of our monetary policy framework. This particular set of options shows us 
the tradeoff between conventional policy space and one possible approach in our framework, 
which is a maturity extension program. But if, instead, for instance, we wish to consider yield 
curve control at the front end of the curve, under which policy would progressively move out the 
front end of the yield curve to provide monetary stimulus once the funds rate reaches its effective 
lower bound, that could require purchases of Treasury securities in the affected maturities and, 
consequently, may imply something quite different for our target composition. Alternatively, if 
the federal funds rate’s effective lower bound were moved into negative territory—something I 
don’t prefer—this, in turn, could have quite different implications for that longer-run 
composition. So, in ideal circumstances, we should integrate the decision about that longer-run 
composition into our overall monetary policy framework review. 
Now, of course, recent developments suggest that reserve scarcity may be coming sooner 
than many of us had expected. It is, therefore, possible that we will be growing our portfolio as 
soon as late this year, perhaps before the framework review is complete. In light of that possible 
eventuality, it is worth thinking about proceeding on a faster track on our decisions on 
reinvestments, at least for the first few years, much as we have done with regard to MBS. And in 
April 30–May 1, 2019
49 of 248
 
that regard, I am looking forward to further deliberations on both those short-term purchases and 
our longer-term target. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Chair. I, like everyone, am very pleased that we are 
getting started early on this discussion, because it’s a complicated discussion—as President 
Evans said, a lot of moving parts. It would be a very important decision, but one as to which we 
do have a significant amount of time. So this is early to be discussing it, and today I don’t have 
any conclusions. 
I don’t even begin with a particularly ardently strong view, but there are some questions 
and considerations that I think will be important as we continue to think through this. So, in that 
regard, again, like everyone, I thought the staff memo was lucid and concise and very helpful in 
laying out a key subset of the factors that we will have to consider as we think about this—that 
subset being the monetary policy tradeoffs that we will face as we consider a proportional 
balance sheet relative to one weighted toward the short end. 
The one-sentence summary of the memo, I think, consistent with how everyone has been 
looking at the memo, is that going short would have benefits in building policy space for future 
maturity extension programs while incurring costs of a potential tightening of the current stance 
of policy. So, looking first at the cost of going short, which is that the tightening of policy might 
result from our announcement of a short-duration portfolio, the staff’s estimate is very large as to 
what the consequence of that would be, with a significant portion of that coming from the 
announcement effect. 
The announcement effect—which is close to one-third of the staff’s estimate of the 
ultimate effect—really depends on current market expectations. As Governor Clarida said, that 
April 30–May 1, 2019
50 of 248
 
raises the question of, how sure are we of what current market expectations are? How big of a 
surprise is this really likely to be? There has to be some expectation that we could be moving to 
a shorter-duration portfolio. That has been widely discussed by financial market participants. 
And if our announcement is much less of a surprise, then we could expect much less of an 
announcement effect than 25 basis points. So I think it would be useful to have a better sense of 
what current market expectations are, and, obviously, there will presumably be significant 
uncertainties associated with that, but it would be good to understand how we’ve come to our 
understanding of what current market expectations are and how we can deepen that 
understanding. 
Another point related to potential tightening from moving short is the assumption that 
many people have already commented on, that the Treasury and the private sector don’t adjust 
their actions in response to our increased purchase of short-duration securities. 
Now, for heuristic purposes, in helping us think through the dynamics of this decision, I 
think that’s a very useful starting place, but it is almost certainly not the finish line. The current 
weighted average maturity of Treasury security issuance is very high relative to historical norms, 
and I begin the question of, what’s the Treasury likely to do? From my experience of when I 
was put in charge of the Treasury security issuance some time ago when Jim Clouse and I were 
much younger people. 
At the time, I wanted to reintroduce the 30-year bond, which would have had a material 
effect on the weighted average maturity of Treasury debt at the time, and I was taught by the 
Treasury staff that long-standing Treasury religion of which I was now expected to be a high 
priest, which limited one’s capacity for heresy, was that over a long-run, 100-year horizon, we 
April 30–May 1, 2019
51 of 248
 
would always minimize the funding costs of the taxpayer by issuing as much to the short end as 
possible, as opposed to trying to time the market. 
Now, if you actually look at the Treasury’s pattern of security issuance over the past 
several decades, if that is the Treasury religion, it is observed in the same way that Catholicism is 
the official religion of modern Europe. [Laughter] There is really quite wide variation in the 
weighted average maturity of the portfolio over the past several decades. But we are at the very, 
very high end of that maturity portfolio, and there is every expectation, I would think, that the 
Treasury will be seeking, in a more normalized monetary policy environment, to want to reduce 
the duration of the portfolio and, therefore, to issue more on the short end. And if they do that, 
that will mitigate at least some of the upward pressure on long-term yields that would result from 
our switch to a short-target portfolio. 
So because such a reaction by the Treasury would presumably benefit both them and us, 
it seems at least reasonable to me to say that we might want to encourage such a shift in issuance 
by adopting a short-target portfolio. And I don’t find it terribly offensive to our own internal 
religion to follow the suggestion that President Kaplan has of, why don’t we just talk to them? 
Isn’t it possible to coordinate with them? 
Now, there is probably no one around the table who holds as a higher icon the Treasury–
Federal Reserve Accord of 1951, but talking to the Treasury about coordinating this does not, in 
my mind, implicate anything that is included in that accord about the insulation of our monetary 
policy decisions from Treasury influence. This would be an entirely different dynamic that I 
don’t think undermines that accord at all, if we were to seek to coordinate this with them, and 
there are strong reasons for us to do so. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
52 of 248
 
Regarding the relative benefits of a short-duration portfolio, in the creation of space for 
unconventional policy, if you don’t see the overall size of the balance sheet as a constraint on QE 
in the future, then the additional space for maturity extension provided by a short-duration 
portfolio is not particularly valuable. But I do see the advantage of keeping the balance sheet 
relatively small, and I do think that we will encounter more, quite real, obstacles, even if they are 
political rather than legal, in increasing the size of our balance sheet. And so I value the 
firepower that a short-duration balance sheet would give us within a fixed balance sheet 
envelope. 
I have a more fundamental concern with the policy tradeoffs highlighted in the memo, 
and it is mainly this: If we move de facto to a practice where interest rates are always the 
preferred mechanism for tightening policy, while both interest rates and the balance sheet can be 
used to loosen policy, there would seem to be an inevitable ratcheting-up effect on both the size 
and duration of the balance sheet. 
If we go with the proportional portfolio, might we not still find it valuable in the future to 
increase the duration in the next severe downturn, and then, presumably, coming out of that 
downturn we would, once again, favor increasing interest rates over decreasing duration, with the 
overall effect that Fed-induced distortions in the market for duration would only grow over time. 
Now, this is over a long period of time, and maybe future FOMCs will find some solution 
to that. But I do think that the inevitable systemic consequence of not shortening our duration 
now is that we will be, over the course of some decades, significantly increasing both our 
duration and the size of our balance sheet. 
Finally, I began at the outset by saying that the memo discussed a subset of the 
considerations that will be important for us, and I think that the monetary policy–centric 
April 30–May 1, 2019
53 of 248
 
framework for assessing our balance sheet choice is important. It is probably the key 
consideration, but incomplete. There are other dimensions over which we might want to 
evaluate this decision when we ultimately make it, including the implications for financial 
stability, which Governor Brainard and others have talked about, or market functioning more 
generally. And that concludes my remarks. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I would like to thank the staff for their 
excellent memo. I went into reading the memo probably more sympathetic with shortening the 
duration of the balance sheet than I ended up. After having read the memo, I was just surprised 
by how long it takes to get there. I think we are going to be overtaken by events. And I think 
that it’s really unclear if we actually buy ourselves policy space, as others have articulated. 
The term premium is not just uncertain in the long run. It is also uncertain in the short 
run. If you look at the term premium and how it actually behaved during the previous round of 
QE, when I look at it, it did the opposite of what I thought it was going to do. In many cases, the 
term premium went up when I thought it would go down. 
I know we don’t know the counterfactual, but I just think there is huge uncertainty about 
what the term premium—and the term premium, we act as though it’s a scientific thing. It’s a 
residual of all the stuff we can’t explain. And trying to predict what the residual of what we 
can’t explain is going to do is a very difficult thing to do. So I think we should just admit that—
or at least for me, I don’t—it’s unclear if this will actually buy us policy space or not. 
I really liked Governor Quarles’s comments on what the Treasury will likely do, and he 
speaks with much more experience than I do. When I looked at this, I think it’s almost obvious 
that the Treasury would respond and shorten the maturity of their security issuance in response to 
April 30–May 1, 2019
54 of 248
 
a long-term strategy of us having a short portfolio. So, in that sense, it helps us on the policy 
space to mention—but I think there is a political cost associated with doing that. 
So I look at this at the end of the day as a tradeoff of two political costs. One cost is, 
we’re at the lower bound, and we want to buy long-term bonds. And the maturity extension is 
politically more palatable than just expanding our balance sheet. But as President Evans said, if 
we’re at a lower-bound event, we just need to do what we think is the right thing to do. And if 
there are political costs, there are political costs. 
The alternative scenario is, we buy short, and it looks like we’re trying to support the 
Treasury’s funding itself and funding their deficits. And I think that’s an ongoing political cost 
that we would be bearing. So I would rather take the political cost in that lower-bound event of 
saying, “We need to do the right thing for the economy,” than the alternative, which is on an 
ongoing basis to look like we are trying to support the Treasury’s deficit financings, which is a 
higher political cost, in my judgment. 
At the end of the day, I don’t have a very strong view. I’m not here to pound the table. I 
think these are second-order effects, second-order considerations, relative to our other policy 
tools that we should think about. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Like my colleagues, I would like to first thank the 
staff for putting together such a thoughtful analysis of the various aspects of how decisions 
regarding the long-term composition of the SOMA portfolio interact with policy levers and 
market participants. The analysis offered very helpful insights, despite the many sources of 
behavioral uncertainty that will affect outcomes. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
55 of 248
 
In my mind, the primary consideration in choosing between the proportional and short-
target portfolios lies in determining the Committee’s preferences regarding the use of various 
accommodative tools. All of the moves being considered are at heart about how much juice 
various policy tools will have when the next crisis occurs. 
A primary benefit of the shorter-duration target portfolio is that it would increase the 
amount of juice available for our maturity extension program should the Committee decide such 
a policy strategy was desirable. But the analysis suggests that there is a reasonable likelihood 
that this approach will force a tradeoff with our main policy tool, the interest rate target. 
As noted in the memo, adding juice or policy space to a potential MEP would, thus, 
sacrifice juice in our interest rate tool, and this doesn’t seem desirable. In addition, pursuing a 
shorter-duration approach feels to me like we would be effectively prioritizing an MEP approach 
over an LSAP approach when we feel that balance sheet tools might be necessary. I don’t 
believe we have clear empirical evidence that an MEP would be more effective in adding 
monetary stimulus than an LSAP. So, in thinking about why one might want to do this, I think it 
really gets to the question of how important it will be to maintain a balance sheet of a fixed 
size—that is, what are the costs of balance sheet expansion? 
Now, personally, maintaining a fixed balance sheet isn’t critical or necessary for me. 
Therefore, I don’t see strong benefits associated with juicing the MEP tool. But, if President 
Kaplan and Governor Quarles are right and we are constrained in increasing the size of the 
balance sheet for political reasons, then I might want to rethink this and come up with a different 
strategy. 
As for the question of how fast to transition, once we decide where we are going, I tend 
to default to a gradual change as my preference. Any policy that we undertake with respect to 
April 30–May 1, 2019
56 of 248
 
balance sheet composition will interact with the pattern of U.S. Treasury security issuance and 
other factors to affect long yields and the transmission of policy, as many have noted. 
Given the uncertainty that comes with even the best modeling in this space, and the 
frequency with which financial market conditions can change, I would prefer to move slowly 
and with guidance from the Desk on market functioning and financial conditions. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Like I said earlier, I think the memo 
and presentation and this discussion have been very helpful. These are complex, complicated 
issues with a lot of different moving pieces. 
I’m going to go back to some principles, picking up on President Bostic’s comments, 
about thinking about monetary policy. And that’s this decision we have made over and over 
again, which is that the short-term interest rate is our primary policy instrument. I actually think 
that is the right answer to the question. 
First of all, we have learned from experience that moving the short rate up and down and 
adjusting it to changing economic conditions—something we have a lot of experience with, a lot 
of understanding of—we learned with QE that the issues of getting out from under QE are 
complex and much more difficult than perhaps we originally thought. We have the taper 
tantrum. We have the “paint peeling” episode. So we have seen that moving interest rates up 
and down has been something that I think we have a good understanding of. QE is just a harder 
ship to steer. 
I think the uncertainty about QE effects is also very important. I want to make a couple 
of points on this. First of all, just from a kind of Bayesian policymaker point of view, if you 
April 30–May 1, 2019
57 of 248
 
have one instrument that you have a lot of experience with—a good understanding of—and 
another where you have highly uncertain effects, the straightforward logic of that is, use the one 
that you have more experience with and more understanding of as your primary tool and use the 
other as needed. And I would apply that in terms of balance sheet policy. 
Now, the important point that the memo made—and many people have said this—is that 
there is no free lunch here, and let me talk a little bit about that. First of all, the basic Board staff 
view, which is based on this Li and Wei model, which is a pure stock model—it’s a forward-
looking stock model. But it tells you that it’s not roughly offsetting—these are exactly offsetting 
effects. 
So any space you get on MEP is completely lost in terms of the neutral rate, under the 
assumptions of that model. And a number of people, including President Rosengren and others, 
have questioned some of those assumptions. But let’s just be clear: At least in the model that we 
have been analyzing and using for quite some time, there is no benefit in terms of policy space 
from going to a shorter portfolio. 
So you need to get some benefit out of this in terms of the economics. You need to go to 
some different model. It could be that you believe in flow effects, maybe signaling effects of 
these others, which would suggest that maybe in the short run they have effects, but not in the 
long run. But I would just like to point out that there is no free lunch in this case either. You are 
going to pay the price of a tighter stance of monetary policy during the transition period. Even if 
there’s not a long-run effect, you do pay with—as you are shortening the portfolio, that pushes 
the term premium up for a number of years, and that is a lower r* that you have to live with. 
Now, when you think about a lower r* that you have to live with for the next five years 
or something, that’s kind of a scary thought. So if you think about an r* that’s 2½ percent, and 
April 30–May 1, 2019
58 of 248
 
today—or half our real rate and going down to close to zero, maybe negative—that’s a situation 
in which, obviously, our policy space would be quite limited. 
The last point I will just make about this is, a lot of people have mentioned that these 
effects that are in the memo are uncertain. I think we need to be clear about what that means. If 
you buy the model, the baseline model, the uncertainty works on both sides. So, for example—
and President Bullard actually made a point like this, which I agreed with—if you think that an 
MEP has small effects, then it has small effects on r*. But you’re not getting anything. That’s 
not like a free lunch. It means that you’re not seeing a lower r*, but you also are not getting the 
additional policy space. So everybody who says, “Well, it’s uncertain,” that type of uncertainty, 
at least is not a help at all. 
Now, I’d go back to some of the issues that a number of people brought up about 
communication. President Daly said we want to make sure that we communicate a shortening of 
the duration of the portfolio as not being active tightening. I think that’s a hard thing to do 
because it actually is a tightening of monetary policy. So it’s really hard to convince people that 
something is not a tightening when in fact, at least in our models, it would be. And I also think 
the signaling effects that we talked about, well, maybe it’s signaling, not the stock effect, that’s 
also challenging. 
Over the next couple of years, we’re telling everybody we want to keep the interest rate 
roughly where it is, but at the same time we’re tightening on the balance sheet in terms of 
duration. We have seen in the past six months that QT stories, whether we agree with them or 
not, obviously can affect financial conditions and confuse our messages. 
I want to go back to what Governor Brainard and Governor Quarles said. I do think that 
this discussion is best thought of in the context of our framework discussion. If we’re really 
April 30–May 1, 2019
59 of 248
 
going to seriously have, as President Daly and President Evans and others said, a real decision on 
the ordering of our tools, how we plan to use our tools, what are the constraints that are on our 
tools, that really does fit into this broader framework discussion. So if we’re going to give up 
some space on the short end, or with MEP, or however you think about this, I think that should 
be part of that broader discussion. 
You know, I do think this is a question that none of us should have a great deal of 
confidence that, with another couple memos, we’re going to get absolute clarity on. This is still 
a little bit of uncharted waters. I do go back—I think President Kaplan’s remark—I would 
argue, if we do no harm and try not to go after “the perfect” here, but to go after, hopefully, 
something that will both work well over the next several years—because I agree with President 
Rosengren, we’re not going to solve the long-run problem—but will also position us well for 
what I view is the inevitable episode of being at the lower bound and needing to be able to 
respond. 
The last comment I will just make is on the Treasury. I agree with President Kaplan and 
Governor Quarles that we should be engaging with the Treasury. I see that as independent of our 
decisions. I think it would be great if the Treasury decisions were more supportive of the 
macroeconomy. And so, regardless of how exactly we decide to adjust our portfolio, obviously, 
some of the decisions regarding issuance actually affect financial conditions, and that’s a good 
discussion. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. So, very interesting discussions, much to think about, 
and I’m particularly glad that this is a nondecisional meeting, because I have to say I really do 
not feel in any way ready to make a decision. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
60 of 248
 
I’ll offer one comment and then move to the main thing I want to say, which is this 
question of the extent to which an MEP is fully offset by a lower neutral rate. If you take that to 
its limit, then why would we reduce the maturity profile at all? In fact, why wouldn’t we 
lengthen it? But I think that’s, frankly, unsustainable. I mean, I really do think you put yourself 
in a position there where you have proven that you can remove duration from the marketplace 
and create a very large balance sheet, but you actually can’t put that in reverse. And I think that 
really is something that would be hard to defend. So it leaves us in quite a difficult position. 
In terms of the pace, as others have pointed out, the pace of movement toward whatever 
solution we choose, a gradual pace takes so long, and I think we need to think of ideas to get 
there faster. And it may be that Governor Clarida’s idea of just going with an unbalanced 
portfolio, taking the short route to shortening the WAM, is worth thinking about. 
I also think it’s worth thinking about less ambitious goals in terms of what we say here. 
Rather than saying we’re going for a proportional portfolio or going for a short portfolio, we say 
we’re moving in this direction over a period of time and we’ll be in touch. So, much more to 
do there. 
I want to come back, though, to the issue of the Treasury and how that matters, because 
there it does seem to me their choices matter a lot in terms of what’s left for us to do. And so 
one question is—and others have talked about this—would the Treasury, through its own 
actions, substantially lessen any term premium effects associated with shortening if we do 
shorten? And I guess my instinct is the same as many others—that they would—but I don’t see 
this as something that we would leave to assumptions or guessing. It seems to me that we’d be 
having a conversation about this. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
61 of 248
 
A different question, and it will lead me back to the first question, is, how would the 
Treasury respond to another episode in which we’re at the lower bound and we do LSAPs? And 
that would depend heavily to some extent on the extent to which the Treasury offsets our actions. 
We don’t know with any confidence what would happen, but I think it’s helpful to recall 
what happened, how the Treasury responded the last time around. When the economy turned 
down sharply, the deficits blew out, and the weighted average maturity of Treasury debt 
shortened a great deal, because the Treasury issued at the short end because it doesn’t want to 
increase the coupon sizes in an irregular way. And then, after the crisis ended, the Treasury set 
out to lengthen that weighted average maturity gradually. 
Now, there were discussions, as many of you know. There were discussions between our 
institutions at the staff level in which our folks pointed out that the Treasury’s plan would offset 
the effects of our purchases, but the Treasury went ahead anyway. Then Larry Summers and 
coauthors produced a research paper in 2014 that argued that the Treasury’s extension of the 
WAM for Treasury debt outstanding ultimately offset about one-third of the duration removal of 
our LSAPs, and the paper urged the Treasury and the Federal Reserve to coordinate our asset 
purchases and our management of duration—our thinking about duration—with debt 
management on an ongoing basis. 
And that was a suggestion that I found uncomfortable in commenting on the paper at its 
Brookings presentation—to the emphatic displeasure of Professor Summers. And I still harbor 
those concerns. I think, at a minimum, it’s worth pausing on that threshold and thinking pretty 
carefully. 
I also, though—and this goes to something others have said—argued at that time that the 
Treasury’s WAM extension could be thought of as exogenous to our LSAP decisions in the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
62 of 248
 
sense that the Committee did the amount of QE that we thought was appropriate, given the 
WAM extension, so that the effects of the WAM extension could have been nil. 
Now, with the benefit of further thought and hindsight, that seems to me to be not quite 
right. I think it’s more accurate to say that the Chairman did as much QE as then-Chairman 
Bernanke could get the Committee to agree to, and that the WAM extension did likely reduce the 
power of our asset purchases to some extent—not because of some external political constraint, 
but because of what the Committee was willing to do in real time. And I saw the tail end of that 
and, indeed, was part of it in 2013. And that was despite Chairman Bernanke’s commitment to 
do whatever it takes—a commitment that I fully share—as I suspect we all do. 
So, in recent years, there have been discussions between the Treasury Borrowing 
Advisory Committee and the Treasury on this issue, and I do think it’s plausible that if we were 
to find ourselves in that situation again, the Treasury would decide to hold off for some period on 
reextending the weighted average maturity of Treasury debt to its long-run desired level—for 
example, for five years or, for example, for a period until the unemployment rate goes below 
some level. And I’m guessing that that wouldn’t have much effect in the model, but I suspect it 
would have a real effect, because I do think signaling effects are very important in the crisis. I 
think a lot of the research supports that, and that would leave us with more policy space. 
But regarding the normalization era rather than the crisis era, I do think that one of the 
things we need to think about is how and whether to engage with the Treasury, just to understand 
what they would do. 
And so I will leave it there. Okay. Show of hands on whether we should have lunch now 
or go ahead and do the Desk briefing. All those in favor of having lunch now? [Show of hands] 
[Laughter] 
April 30–May 1, 2019
63 of 248
 
MR. BULLARD. Lead by example. 
CHAIR POWELL. The Desk briefing? [Show of hands] The lunches have it. 
[Laughter] We’ll resume at 1:00 sharp. Thank you. 
 [Lunch recess] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Let’s turn now to the Desk report from Simon and Lorie, 
which will also cover the annual swap line renewals. Simon, over to you. 
MR. POTTER.2 Thank you, Mr. Chair. As summarized in the top-left panel of 
your first exhibit, financial conditions generally eased over the intermeeting period. 
Treasury yields declined, adding to their substantial drop since September. 
Meanwhile, the S&P 500 index rose to record levels. However, the intermeeting 
change masks a more significant drop in Treasury yields and federal funds futures-
implied rates in the days just after the March FOMC meeting. As illustrated by the 
blue lines in the top-right panel, at their lowest points, the 2- and 10-year Treasury 
yields had fallen by nearly 30 basis points, and, at that time, the 10-year–3-month 
Treasury yield spread had inverted. 
Market participants attributed these moves in part to the larger-than-expected 
decline in the SEP “dots” as well as weaker-than-expected euro-area data, which 
rekindled concerns over global real growth. Later in the period, stronger-than-
expected Chinese data reduced those growth concerns somewhat, while U.S.–China 
trade and immediate Brexit risks also receded. That said, below-expectations core 
U.S. inflation data have contributed to the decline in yields. Meanwhile, expectations 
for moderate domestic growth alongside a “patient” FOMC have boosted U.S. risk 
assets. 
With respect to the evolving interpretation of “patience,” many of the Desk’s 
survey respondents who had still expected hikes in 2019 before the March meeting 
revised their modal forecasts lower to reflect no expected change in the target range 
this year. As shown by the dark blue bars in the upper part of the middle-left panel, 
nearly all respondents anticipate a flat path through December, consistent with the 
March “dots.” Furthermore, as you can see in the lower part of the panel, a plurality 
of respondents also forecast no change to the target range next year, though about 
one-third expect hikes and roughly one-fourth expect cuts in 2020. 
Consistent with this, and as demonstrated by the shift from the light to dark blue 
bars in the middle-right panel, the average probability assigned to no change in the 
target range in 2019 rose significantly, from 38 percent to 63 percent. Meanwhile, 
the average probability assigned to the next policy action this year being an increase 
fell notably and is now only slightly higher than the average probability assigned to 
 
2 The materials used by Mr. Potter and Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 2). 
April 30–May 1, 2019
64 of 248
 
the next policy action being a decrease, which was little changed. Several cited 
subdued inflation as a contributing factor to these changes. 
For context, in the Desk’s surveys, the average probability distribution for two-
year-forward one-year PCE inflation was not much changed since the last time we 
asked a similar question in June 2018, with the average probability-weighted mean 
expectation remaining at around 1.9 percent. However, in their qualitative responses, 
a number of survey respondents noted that subdued realized inflation posed downside 
risks to their inflation outlook. However, some highlighted that potential changes to 
the Federal Reserve’s policy framework, such as the adoption of average inflation 
targeting, posed upside risks. 
Regarding the bottom-left panel, the paths based on unconditional mean 
expectations as well as market-implied rates became slightly more downward sloping 
since the March meeting. How do we reconcile the implied rate cuts in this path with 
the general survey consensus regarding no policy rate change in the near future, the 
fact that a hike is still seen as slightly more likely than a cut, and that the average 
expected probability of returning to the effective lower bound over this horizon 
edged lower? 
First, with respect to the downward slope, although market participants see 
downside risks as having receded somewhat, as I will discuss in a moment, a number 
of risks remain prominent in their outlook. On average, survey respondents still see a 
nearly 30 percent chance of returning to the lower bound by 2021, which continues to 
weigh on the unconditional federal funds rate expectations. 
Second, with respect to the shifts down in the mean and market-implied paths, 
investors have increasingly discussed the possibility of modest rate cuts as 
“insurance” against a future negative shock, particularly in light of subdued inflation. 
Several pieces of dealer commentary have mentioned this in the past week, and, as 
illustrated in the dark blue portion of the bars in the bottom-right panel, the average 
expected federal funds rate conditional on not returning to the lower bound declined 
slightly. Additionally, as shown in the top-left panel of your second exhibit, 
conditional on the next policy action being a cut in 2019, on average, survey 
respondents place a higher probability on 25 basis points or 50 basis points of cuts 
this year relative to the previous survey. Thomas will discuss these issues more in his 
briefing. 
Similar to the survey-implied probability of returning to the lower bound, as 
shown in the top-right panel, the average probability of the United States entering a 
recession by end-2021 inched slightly lower. Several survey respondents cited 
improved U.S. and Chinese growth prospects, relative to their heightened concerns 
around the year-end, as driving this modest decline. Chinese data, especially PMIs 
and aggregate credit growth, have generally exceeded analysts’ expectations over the 
period, with Desk contacts also crediting Chinese policy stimulus and perceived 
progress in U.S.–China trade negotiations for the improvement in risk sentiment. As 
April 30–May 1, 2019
65 of 248
 
you can see in the middle-left panel, the Shanghai Composite stock index has risen 
considerably year-to-date. 
The survey average probability of recession by end-2021 is still nearly 70 percent. 
Although market participants perceive some reduction in risks associated with 
Chinese growth, U.S.–China trade, and Brexit, significant uncertainties related to 
these remain, along with continuing concerns about the outlook in Europe. 
While some market participants expect improved prospects for Chinese economic 
activity to eventually boost growth in the euro area, euro-area data continue to 
suggest sluggish growth, and recent readings have generally fallen short of 
forecasters’ expectations. This, along with the growing conviction among investors 
that the ECB has limited policy space with which to ease in response to negative 
shocks, has weighed on sentiment. 
Recall that in March, the ECB announced a number of measures, including an 
extension of forward guidance on interest rates and another round of targeted long-
term refinancing operations alongside significant downgrades to its growth and 
inflation forecasts that disappointed markets, leading to declines in euro-area rates 
and equities, as shown in the middle-right panel. 
Since then, ECB officials suggested that the staff are studying the potential 
implementation of a tiered deposit facility scheme, which would allow the ECB to 
maintain policy rates at current or lower levels for a longer period of time, while 
alleviating some pressures on bank profits. These communications prompted declines 
in forward EONIA pricing and increases in bank stock prices. 
Furthermore, while the Brexit deadline was pushed out to October 31, uncertainty 
regarding the ultimate outcome has weighed on business sentiment in the United 
Kingdom as well as the euro area. Indeed, the pound sterling and the euro 
depreciated by 2.6 percent and 1.8 percent against the U.S. dollar over the 
intermeeting period, contributing significantly to the trade-weighted dollar’s strength 
since March. 
U.S. equity valuations have also risen markedly since late December, increasing 
the potential for a disappointment in growth or earnings to pressure stock prices 
lower. The VIX is also back to its low levels seen in early October of last year, 
increasing risk asset vulnerability to a potential uptick in volatility. 
Relatedly, there has been growing market debate about the increased frequency of 
volatility “events,” such as observed in February 2018 and 2018:Q4. By some 
measures, such events appear to have become more common. For example, the red 
line in the bottom-left panel tracks the number of times that a five standard deviation 
change in the S&P 500 index is observed within a three-year window, using daily 
returns over a rolling 30-day horizon. As you can see, this count has increased to 
multi-decade highs. One interpretation of this phenomenon put forth by some in the 
market is that periods of low volatility coincide with growth in negative skew 
April 30–May 1, 2019
66 of 248
 
positions and, when coupled with lower liquidity, contribute to large volatility events. 
An alternative interpretation is that a smaller absolute change in the S&P could 
appear extreme in a low-volatility environment. 
For example, the five standard deviation metric looks quite different using 
alternative parameters. As shown by the light blue line, the count of volatility events 
appears less unusual using three years of daily returns to calculate the baseline 
standard deviation. 
Market liquidity and how its relationship with volatility has changed is at the 
center of this debate. The bottom-right panel summarizes some “takeaways” that we 
received at a recent workshop in New York attended by market participants using 
systematic investment strategies, electronic liquidity providers, and sell-side analysts. 
On the one hand, some argued that the rise of pro-cyclical volatility-sensitive 
systematic investment strategies, combined with increasingly automated trading by 
nondealer market makers, has led to an environment where liquidity evaporates more 
quickly and significantly during times of market stress. This group used the phrase 
“liquidity is the new leverage” to summarize their views. 
However, some highlighted that liquidity has always dried up in times of stress, 
even under the dealer-centric model of liquidity provision, as we observed in 2008. 
Others argued that there is enough heterogeneity among types of systematic strategies 
and that assets under management of such strategies are much smaller than those of 
actively managed funds, potentially limiting their aggregate effect on market 
conditions. It was also noted that electronic liquidity providers may have an 
economic incentive to step into the market when volatility increases in order to take 
advantage of wider bid-ask spreads. 
All in all, there’s a lot we don’t yet understand about volatility events, their effect 
on financial stability, and the roles of liquidity and changes in market structure. 
However, as we have observed, volatility can spike quickly from low levels, and there 
are a significant number of sophisticated market participants who believe that the type 
of market dynamics we observed in February and December last year might be more 
intense in the next episode. 
I will conclude with a few operational updates on reinvestment purchases, then 
turn to the swap lines before Lorie’s report on money market and reserve conditions. 
First, on reinvestments, in light of the declines in interest rates since November 
last year, as shown in the top-left panel of your third exhibit, the Desk forecasts that 
agency MBS principal payments will exceed the $20 billion cap sometime this 
summer. The current projection indicates principal payments of $18 to $21 billion 
per month from May through September, suggesting any potential MBS reinvestment 
would be modest in size. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
67 of 248
 
Even if MBS principal payments stay below the cap, the Desk will continue 
conducting regular small-value operations of agency MBS in the to-be-announced, or 
TBA, market. 
From now on, the Desk will conduct these MBS purchase operations using 
uniform MBS, or UMBS, rather than Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac securities, starting 
with the small-value operations scheduled between May 2 and May 13. The Desk 
conducted a small-value purchase of UMBS in the TBA market on April 4 to confirm 
its operational readiness to transact in this new security. The Desk is also currently 
revisiting its previous plans to convert some of the existing SOMA Freddie Mac 
holdings into UMBS, given recent changes to Freddie Mac’s conversion process. 
Beginning in October, based on the Committee’s new and revised Balance Sheet 
Normalization Principles and Plans, the Desk will reinvest any MBS principal 
payments in Treasury securities through secondary market purchases, subject to a 
maximum amount of $20 billion per month. 
In terms of composition, purchases will be conducted across maturity sectors such 
that the distribution of monthly purchases will be roughly in line with the distribution 
of Treasuries outstanding until the Committee decides on a target for the longer-run 
composition of the SOMA portfolio and a transition approach to this target. 
Purchases will be conducted on a mid-month-to-mid-month basis. The Desk 
plans to release a statement and a related set of FAQs in the last week of May. Lorie 
and I would be happy to take any questions on this. 
Starting in May, the caps on Treasury redemptions will be lowered to $15 billion 
from the current level of $30 billion. For context, previous and projected 
redemptions and reinvestments of proceeds associated with maturing Treasury 
securities, as well as projected secondary market purchases resulting from MBS 
principal receipts, are shown in the top-right panel in the dark blue and light blue 
bars, respectively. 
Regarding the swap lines, as discussed in the memo sent to the Committee on 
April 19, Steve and I request that the Committee vote to renew the North America 
Framework Agreement and applicable related agreements, or NAFA arrangements, 
with the central banks of Canada and Mexico. We also ask that the Committee vote 
to maintain the standing liquidity swap lines with the Bank of Canada, the Bank of 
England, the Bank of Japan, the European Central Bank, and the Swiss National 
Bank. All of our foreign central bank counterparts support the continuation of these 
arrangements. As shown in the middle panel, recent usage of the dollar liquidity 
swap lines has been low. 
The network of bilateral standing swap lines with these five central banks 
promote global financial stability and confidence in global funding markets in times 
of stress. They have become an important feature in global financial markets. For 
example, as a safeguard ahead of Brexit, the Bank of England and ECB decided to 
April 30–May 1, 2019
68 of 248
 
activate their standing sterling–euro swap line, offering to lend euro to U.K. banks on 
a weekly basis. 
The standing liquidity swap lines also support the approach that the Federal 
Reserve, along with other major central banks, endorsed that there should be “no 
technical obstacles” to central bank capabilities to provide liquidity quickly to a 
systemically important financial market utility. As a reminder of this role for the 
swap lines, we also recirculated a 2012 memo highlighting the potential use of swap 
lines to address a dollar liquidity shortfall at a prominent central counterparty such as 
the London Clearing House, which is a major clearing house for U.S. dollar interest 
rate swaps and other types of U.S. dollar transactions globally. 
It’s important to note that this reauthorization does not constitute automatic 
approval of any request to use the lines. All drawings related to U.S. dollar liquidity 
swap lines are subject to the approval of the Chair, while all drawings on foreign 
currency liquidity swap lines, and those related to the NAFA arrangements, require 
FOMC approval. The FOMC may unilaterally terminate its participation in the 
liquidity swap lines and the NAFA arrangements at any time with six months’ written 
notice. If the Committee chooses not to renew its participation in the NAFA 
arrangements, the related agreements would cease when they are currently set to 
expire on December 12. 
Finally, a full list of upcoming and completed small-value exercises is located in 
the appendix. 
MS. LOGAN. I’ll begin on exhibit 4 with a summary of reserves conditions and 
an assessment of the recent firming in money markets and then turn to considerations 
for a 5 basis point technical adjustment to interest on reserves. 
As shown in the upper-left panel, reserve balances declined $150 billion over the 
intermeeting period and reached a low point of $1.46 trillion on April 23, the lowest 
level since December 2012. 
As shown in the upper-right panel, the net decline in reserves stemmed from a 
reduction in the SOMA’s agency MBS and Treasury holdings of $46 billion, bringing 
the asset side of the balance sheet down to $3.92 trillion, and a shift in the 
composition of items on the liability side, predominantly related to the increase in the 
Treasury General Account, or TGA. 
As is typical at this time of year, the TGA was volatile during the intermeeting 
period. In early April, the Treasury reduced bill issuance and allowed its balance at 
the Federal Reserve to fall in anticipation of individual tax receipts, which, when they 
came in, subsequently boosted the TGA to over $400 billion after the tax date, 
causing reserves to fall sharply over the last two weeks of April. 
In this environment, the distribution of rates on traded volumes in overnight 
unsecured markets shifted higher, including in the federal funds market. As shown in 
the middle-left panel, the effective federal funds rate rose to 2.44 percent, 6 basis 
April 30–May 1, 2019
69 of 248
 
points below the top of the target range. On April 24, the effective was less than 
$200 million in volume away from printing at 2.45 percent, 5 basis points below the 
top of the range, and, while not shown in the panel, the effective federal funds rate 
was at 2.45 percent yesterday. 
Through our market outreach, surveys, and data analysis, four main factors have 
emerged as supporting this upward pressure. 
First, the April 15 tax day caused broad-based deposit and money fund outflows 
and a large and rapid decline in reserves, resulting in more banks with reserve 
balances near their lowest comfortable level of reserves as reported in the February 
Senior Financial Officer Survey. Many of these banks responded by borrowing more 
in Federal Home Loan Bank, or FHLB, advances and overnight funding, particularly 
federal funds. The increase in advance volumes also drew down FHLB liquidity 
buffers, reducing the amount of cash FHLBs lent in the federal funds market. 
The combination of broad-based deposit and money fund outflows and reserve 
declines of this magnitude is not a new phenomenon, and slight upward pressure on 
overnight rates has been witnessed in recent years around tax dates. 
However, with reserves now $542 billion lower than a year ago, many banks are 
operating closer to their lowest comfortable reserve levels, which appears to have 
increased the effect of these outflows on federal funds and other money markets. 
This seems consistent with having reached a level of reserves where the aggregate 
demand curve for reserves slopes gently upward. As shown in the middle-right panel, 
the spread between the volume-weighted average federal funds rate and IOER now 
shows a modest, but statistically significant, sensitivity to daily changes in reserve 
levels. 
Second, while the decline in the aggregate reserve level was foreseeable, the 
distribution of declines across individual bank reserve balances was less so. In 
aggregate, reserve balances of survey respondents remained well above the total 
lowest comfortable level of reserves reported by those banks, as shown in the bottom-
left panel. However, numerous individual bank reserve balances fell near their 
respective lowest comfortable reserve levels by period-end, suggesting that 
distributional frictions may also have contributed to the firmness of money market 
rates. 
Importantly, the bulk of the surplus reserves relative to lowest comfortable 
reserve levels is concentrated at a few banks. For example, among U.S. G-SIBs, as 
shown in the confidential data in the bottom-right panel, surplus reserve balances are 
concentrated at the top two reserve holders, which together have roughly $150 billion 
in surplus reserves, or over 30 percent of all surplus reserves held by survey bank 
respondents. 
Third, elevated repo rates passed through to federal funds, as FHLBs shifted some 
of their liquidity investments out of federal funds and into repo, further reducing 
April 30–May 1, 2019
70 of 248
 
federal funds volumes. Repo spreads, which are shown in the top-left panel of your 
fourth exhibit, were, in part, pushed higher because of tax-related outflows from 
government money funds, which reduced the supply of cash lent into repo markets. 
The firmness in repo occurred despite a reduction in Treasury bill supply of roughly 
$100 billion. 
Fourth, the benefit of the liquidity coverage ratio calculation for larger banks of 
borrowing from FHLBs, as well as more limited alternatives for regional banks to 
obtain short-term funding, increased the premium for federal funds. As demonstrated 
in the top-right panel, this premium can be seen in the spread between the median 
federal funds and Eurodollar rates, which now stands at 4 basis points. However, as 
shown by the growth in the light blue and green bars of the middle-left panel, the 
volume of transactions occurring at rates above IOER has increased in Eurodollars as 
well, suggesting that the firmness in money markets is not isolated to factors specific 
to LCR-motivated borrowing from FHLBs in federal funds. 
Taken together, in an environment where more banks are operating closer to their 
lowest comfortable reserve levels, the broad-based reduction in reserves associated 
with the tax date expanded demand for funding and, at the same time, decreased the 
supply of lending in federal funds. Elevated repo rates, also heightened to some 
degree by the tax date, contributed to the upward pressure. Though a few banks lent 
some of their reserve surplus in repo markets in reasonably high volumes, this was 
insufficient to fully reduce repo rates or redistribute reserves. 
As we look ahead, the effective federal funds rate seems likely to move slightly 
higher today given the April month-end date. Over March quarter-end, the effective 
increased by two basis points, before retracing the following day. Similar to the end 
of March, we expect demand for federal funds to temporarily increase from banks 
that calculate the LCR on month-end dates. Repo rates are also higher this morning 
as dealers contract their balance sheets for the statement date, which may also 
pressure federal funds higher. Additionally, as shown in the middle-right panel, staff 
estimates indicate reserves may decline $48 billion today, to $1.40 trillion, because of 
a $30 billion maturity in SOMA Treasury security holdings and an expected modest 
rise in the Treasury’s account balances. 
After today’s month-end, some of the factors that I described as having pressured 
federal funds rates higher should ease in the coming days, and others may diminish as 
banks find more permanent sources of funding or adjust their business models over 
time. However, it is also possible that this pressure could persist, as the effective has 
continued to remain at the new higher level rather than decline following increases 
before. Perhaps that’s because these events have tended to reveal information and 
alter bargaining dynamics between borrowers and lenders of federal funds and in 
other funding markets. Additionally, as shown in the reserves projections panel, 
pressures may reemerge, as reserves are projected to decline further to new lows in 
the second half of May, and, with lower levels of reserves, large and rapid changes in 
individual bank reserve balances could prompt bouts of upward pressure similar to 
those witnessed recently. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
71 of 248
 
In this context, and as noted first in the bottom panel, the staff assesses that a 
5 basis point technical adjustment to interest on required reserves and interest on 
excess reserves would be appropriate at this time, reducing both rates to 2.35 percent. 
If the Board were to take this action, it would bring the IOER rate to 15 basis points 
below the top of the target range and 10 basis points above the bottom of the range 
and the overnight RRP offer rate. 
As the effective federal funds rate nears a level of 5 basis points below the top of 
the range, the spread at which the previous two technical adjustments were made, 
expectations for another technical adjustment at this meeting have increased but, 
without a discussion in the March minutes, they remain lower than when previous 
adjustments were made. 
Second, as with the previous technical adjustments in June and December 2018, 
an adjustment is intended to foster trading in the federal funds market well within the 
target range. By providing more space for the effective to trade above the IOER rate 
but within the target range as reserves continue to decline, a technical adjustment 
would provide time for the Committee to learn more about the effects of 
distributional frictions on money market rates, and if the gentle slope observable in 
panel 19 will steepen further as reserves fall to new lows. 
Third, a technical adjustment would reduce the spread between the IOER rate and 
the overnight RRP offering rate to 10 basis points, the smallest since the introduction 
of the overnight RRP facility. At the moment, the staff do not assess significant risk 
of increased take-up at the overnight RRP resulting from this 10 basis point spread, 
because repo rates are trading well above the overnight RRP offer rate. However, if it 
becomes appropriate in the future to lower the IOER rate further, the Committee 
might first consider where to set the overnight RRP offer rate relative to the range in 
order to lower this risk. 
For example, the Committee might wish to maintain the overnight RRP offer rate 
at a spread of 10 basis points below the Board’s intended setting of the IOER. 
Keeping a sufficiently wide spread could mitigate the risk of a situation in which 
market overnight rates drop close to the bottom of the target range and usage of the 
overnight RRP increases substantially, thus lowering reserves in the banking system 
below levels that are considered ample. Of course, the Committee could also 
consider other approaches to lowering this risk such as imposing an aggregate limit 
on the capacity of the overnight RRP facility or widening the target range. 
Finally, were a technical adjustment to be implemented following this meeting, it 
would be the first time such an adjustment would occur without a simultaneous 
increase in the target range. Lowering the IOER rate at a nontightening meeting 
could help to signal that the adjustment is solely technical, aimed at realigning market 
rates within the target range to reduce the risk that the effective would move 
persistently outside the target range. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
72 of 248
 
There may be concern, however, with the “optics” of taking an action that 
deliberately lowers the policy rate, against the backdrop of the Committee’s current 
“patient” stance and recent discussion of preemptive, or “insurance,” cuts. Even so, a 
technical adjustment is relatively small in its effect compared with other factors 
moving short-term rates and would only serve to offset the recent rise in the effective 
federal funds rate. A change at this time, rather than between meetings, would have 
the benefit of concurrent communications at the Chair’s press conference 
emphasizing the status of the change as a technical adjustment and not a change in the 
stance of policy. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. That concludes our prepared remarks. We would be 
happy to take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks very much. Before we turn to Q&A, I’d like to make a few 
short comments about the recommendation for the technical five basis point reduction in the 
IOER rate. I think there’s a good argument to be made for making the adjustment at this 
meeting. A revised version of the implementation note that reflects a change in the IOER rate 
was distributed yesterday. As in the past, the implementation note would be clear in stating that 
the Board acted to adjust the IORR and IOER rates to support the Committee’s intention that 
federal funds remain well within the range established by the FOMC. 
I have a question, and then other questions, too. So if you look at charts 20 and 21, if I 
just look at the right chart, it suggests that excess reserves relative to lowest comfortable reserve 
level are concentrated in two firms, and I guess I wonder why a firm would want—in other 
words, it seems like we’re anticipating that redistribution will happen of these reserves that are 
above the lowest comfortable level. 
But it seems like there’s some kind of a real preference, that they actually like these 
reserves. Do we have any reason to think that they will be—what’s our comfort level that they 
will be distributed in time for it to matter? 
And then, second, if you look at the chart on the left, I guess it suggests that, if I’m 
reading this correctly, there are similar amounts of, call them “excess reserves,” in non-G-SIBs 
April 30–May 1, 2019
73 of 248
 
and FBOs, big and small. So I guess I’m really asking, what’s our level of comfort that there is a 
pool of reserves that will be fairly, in a timely fashion, redistributed so that we will get all the 
way to September? 
MS. LOGAN. As you note when you look at panel 21, the surplus reserves are 
concentrated in those two firms, and if you look across other types of banking types that were 
included in the reserves condition report, it’s similarly concentrated, even at those banks that are 
smaller. So in all the categories it’s pretty concentrated. 
In terms of how they are redistributing, we know that J.P. Morgan, for example, as repo 
rates have risen well above the IOER rate, has been doing a lot of activity transferring from 
reserves to repo, in light of the movement in rates, so that there is some redistribution taking 
place. But some of that activity might end up back at J.P. Morgan, given who they’re doing their 
repos with. So the redistribution that is taking place may not be efficient to the banks that are 
close to their LCLoRs or trying to stay above them. 
I would also note that we see from the survey and from our market intelligence that some 
of the banks with these high concentrations of the surplus have suggested that to redistribute an 
unsecured overnight market, they would do so only at rates well above IOER because of the 
capital charges associated with doing overnight unsecured lending. So I think that, for now, 
we’re most likely to see the redistribution taking place through repo, and then that distribution 
may not be fully efficient to those firms. 
I would note that in chart 20 we normalized it here in the ratios but, in dollar terms, most 
of the reserves are in one category on the left. So while the FBO or the non-G-SIB or the 
non-G-SIB smaller domestic banks are still in aggregate above their LCLoRs, it’s small in dollar 
terms relative to the G-SIB category. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
74 of 248
 
CHAIR POWELL. So, bottom line in mind, does it not seem, though, that there may be 
an equilibrium here where the reserves are just distributed in this way, and that you’ll observe 
scarcity even though some banks say they have more than they need, but they’re not trading 
away from them—they’re just sitting? 
MS. LOGAN. It may just take rates to move pretty high in repo or fairly significantly in 
unsecured rates in order to get that redistribution to take place, to incent them to do so. So I 
would say that we are seeing some redistribution. So I think that’s very positive to how the 
system is working, but it’s not fully efficient redistribution. 
MR. POTTER. I think the discussions we’ve had with the bank on that—if rates are high 
enough, they will be lending out quite a lot of cash, and, as Lorie said, that cash, through 
however the system works, might come back to them because we don’t control where the cash 
goes after it’s lent out. 
I think one of the criteria there will be what their payment flow looks like. So not to 
make it sound worse, but if the payment flow gets more noisy at that bank, then the lowest 
comfortable level that we survey could actually go up. One of the things that might happen as 
reserves get lower is that the predictability of payments will drop. The reason they dropped from 
about $100 billion to $80 billion in reserves was because they felt more comfortable with the 
payment flows during that time. 
CHAIR POWELL. Other questions? President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. On a related topic, when we estimate where we’re getting to the 
steep part of demand for reserves, do we have a model that takes into account, perhaps, this 
preferred habitat of some banks, or do we just assume that the spreads that are here don’t persist 
and go away? 
April 30–May 1, 2019
75 of 248
 
And a second question is about the volatility that I see in 22, in which it looks like there 
are more spikes since the beginning of this year than there were in previous periods. Is there 
anything to read into that volatility, or, as I’ve combined the Chair’s comments with seeing a 
little bit more volatility here, does it give us less confidence about where the steepness occurs 
and how long we can wait before we have to expand our balance sheet? 
MR. POTTER. Right now, we’d estimate for every $100 billion dropped in reserves, the 
volume-weighted federal funds would go up 1 basis point. So we’ve got plenty of space. What 
we have seen is that the slope has increased over the past two years. So, first, it wasn’t a 
significant slope. Now it is definitely statistically significant, and one of the issues we’re 
tracking is, is that going to keep on rotating up. 
Relative to the LCLoR numbers that we use where we just add those up, it’s hard to 
know. That doesn’t take account of what the distributional issues were and how hard it might be 
for banks to maintain those ratios. 
MS. LOGAN. Just in terms of their repo volatility that we’re seeing on this chart, we 
have seen since the year-end more volatility on the month-end statement dates. The year-end, I 
think you recall from a previous presentation, was very high. We had a couple of factors noted 
for that. One is that dealer positioning of holding Treasury securities is very high historically 
right now, and when that positioning is high, then repo rates tend to react to that because they 
fund that in repo. And, second, there was some coincident Treasury settlement taking place on 
that day. 
I think the other thing that we’re learning, though, is, as they anticipate that the month-
end date may be high, they pre-position before that. So it’s not just that the statement date 
volatility is just taking place on the statement date; it could be happening in the days around that 
April 30–May 1, 2019
76 of 248
 
as well as there’s more pre-positioning and volatility. So it’s a little bit unclear to us exactly why 
the volatility is taking place around the statement dates, and it’s not just that one day. It’s a 
couple of days around it. 
MR. POTTER. The chart is actually showing around those days. If you show the days, 
it’s a little bit steeper. Today I think it’s going to be, what, probably 40 basis points above 
interest on reserves. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I want to just follow up on Chair Powell’s question. Looking at chart 21 for 
context—so if we looked at a different time period, would we see a similar type of distribution 
tilted, and then we’d see it resolve in the way that we think it will, that they’ll trade? 
MS. LOGAN. I think in the pre-crisis period, there was just a lot more trading in federal 
funds or in overnight unsecured markets. So I think the distribution of reserves was a much 
more efficient system. Post-regulatory change and—then because of all the reserves in the 
system, there’s just not an active federal funds market. The federal funds market is largely this 
FHLB-related market. 
And I think what we’ve been hearing from some of these institutions is that to trade in 
overnight unsecured and federal funds, the rates would have to be pretty high to induce them to 
do that, given the balance sheet costs. 
MS. DALY. Okay. So we could see this persist unless those adjustments occurred? 
MS. LOGAN. I think so. 
MR. POTTER. But banks should look at this, look at the business model, look at the 
deposits, the term funding. They should be adjusting to this. It’s not our job to adjust it for 
them, but they should be adjusting and learning from this pattern. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
77 of 248
 
MS. DALY. Right, but am I right about—I’m just asking for clarification. The speed at 
which they do that is unknown to us? 
MR. POTTER. Exactly. 
MS. DALY. Okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. Other questions? President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Could I get clarification of what’s being requested on the swap lines? 
MR. POTTER. For the NAFA ones, we would like you to renew those lines. That’s with 
Mexico and Canada. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay. 
MR. POTTER. For the standing swap arrangements, we’d like you to maintain those. 
They do not have a contract date like the NAFA ones where they expire, but you have the option 
at this meeting to tell us that you would not like to continue with those, and, after six months, we 
and our counterparties can at that point walk away from them. 
MR. BULLARD. So the NAFTA is up for— 
MR. POTTER. Renewal. 
MR. BULLARD. —renewal. Does that affect us at all in the Congress? 
MR. POTTER. I apologize. The USMCA, no. These are separate arrangements that we 
have with the Bank of Mexico and 
MR. BULLARD. So we refer to NAFTA when we talk about this, but it doesn’t have 
actually anything to do with the treaty itself? 
MR. POTTER. It’s the North American Framework Agreement and other documents, 
which is associated with NAFTA, but— 
MR. BULLARD. And was not renegotiated as part of the new— 
April 30–May 1, 2019
78 of 248
 
MR. POTTER. There have been aspects of the Treasury swap line with the Bank of 
Mexico that have been changed. That’s gone from $3 billion to $9 billion, and there are some 
terms in that that we are looking at right now because we execute on that swap line for the 
Treasury—the debt. 
MR. BULLARD. What is the policy with respect to other possible swap lines? During 
the crisis we opened up other swap lines. Are we maintaining that policy as well by voting for 
this today? 
MR. POTTER. No. No, we are not. This just relates to the standing swap lines and the 
NAFA swap lines. It has no relationship to any other possible swap line. These are the set of 
swap lines we have. 
MR. BULLARD. So you would come to the Committee if we wanted to open up others? 
MR. POTTER. It is something the FOMC decides. It’s not something the Desk decides. 
One thing I’ll note is, the growth of swap lines among central banks is quite large, and at some 
point we should brief you just on how many swap lines are out there between central banks, I 
think, following some of the models that the Federal Reserve put in place in 2007 and ’08 with 
the major central banks. 
MR. KAMIN. We frequently get inquiries from foreign officials about the availability of 
a swap line for them, and we always caution that that is a decision of the FOMC and that, though 
we provided those during a crisis situation, the FOMC does not regard the current situation or 
however it has been in the past few years as a crisis situation, and their inclination is not to 
expand the network. 
CHAIR POWELL. The question is generally expressed in the following form: “I know 
you’re going to say ‘no,’ but I have to ask.” Vice Chair Quarles. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
79 of 248
 
MR. QUARLES. So how will this decision be communicated? 
MR. POTTER. To a counterpart? 
MR. QUARLES. To—no, not to our counterparts. I assume we’ll tell them that. But to 
the world. 
MR. POTTER. This will appear in the minutes of— 
MR. QUARLES. It will appear in the minutes. It’s not like a separate press release or 
something, but it will be noted in the minutes that we have done this. 
MR. POTTER. Correct. 
MR. KAMIN. And then we will be reauthorizing it in January as part of the foreign— 
MR. POTTER. Yes. 
MR. KAMIN. —currency authorization. 
MR. POTTER. Which makes people’s heads spin, but we authorize the Desk to do this 
in January. But you can have the agreements lapse with the other central banks at this time of 
the year because that gives us a six-month runway. 
MR. QUARLES. And there was no particular reaction when we authorized in January? 
MR. POTTER. There is not particularly for the swap lines. With the other major central 
banks, it’s viewed as part of the fabric of the global financial system. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Back to the topic of the reserve levels, I 
think you may have said this, Lorie, and I apologize if I missed it. Assuming that the Committee 
goes ahead and makes the 5 basis point technical adjustment today, are you expecting that the 
Committee will need to do that again between now and September, or how would you handicap 
that? 
April 30–May 1, 2019
80 of 248
 
MS. LOGAN. I think that, as I said, if you go back to chart 25, you will see that there 
will be another fall in reserves at the end of May. And then, looking ahead, there will be another 
decline going into the July FOMC meeting. After that point, it’s very hard for us to do 
projections, because we’re not sure how the Treasury is going to respond to managing the debt 
ceiling. So I think we’d be very hesitant in our projections up to that period. 
I think that over this next intermeeting period, the technical adjustment will give you 
plenty of room to learn more about how the money markets respond to this volatility in reserve 
levels, and I think at that point we can come back with that experience and be in a better position 
to think about how money markets might respond to that next drop in reserves. 
MR. KASHKARI. Okay. But I guess what I’d take from that is, I’m not hearing alarm 
in your words or your tone, that you’re all really concerned about this, or that we’re in kind of a 
dangerous area right now. 
MS. LOGAN. No, I think we’re seeing some signs of firmness across money markets. 
They’re playing out more predominantly in federal funds, given the nature of that market. We’re 
seeing some in Eurodollars as well, but nothing too concerning at this point. It’s a very gentle 
slope, and I think the next intermeeting period will give us an opportunity to learn more about 
the volatility of reserves at this level, and then I think we can do another assessment and then 
share that with you at the next meeting. 
MR. POTTER. But we are descending to reserve levels we haven’t seen since 2012 or 
maybe 2011 coming up, and we are trying to be careful. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair, with a two-hander. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
81 of 248
 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Yes. I mean, I think that this is a good question, but this 
picture also shows us that we’re in a good place. We have about two months of no downward 
trend in reserves, at least according to our forecast, but quite a bit of volatility. And this is 
getting back to President Daly’s question and Lorie’s answers to some of these questions. This 
is going to be a good time for us to reassess the alternative stories about what’s happening, how 
much redistribution we see. 
But why it’s a good time is because it’s not going to be a time when reserves are overall 
shrinking by a lot. So I do think over the next few months we’re going to get a much clearer 
picture about what’s happening and maybe a better diagnosis of where the demand curve for 
reserves really is. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. I’ve seen these charts before, but I never noticed. On exhibit 25, is it 
just a coincidence that there are these sharp downward spikes right before our FOMC meetings? 
And, if so, maybe we should adjust our calendar. [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Or have fewer meetings. 
MR. CLARIDA. Coincidence? 
MS. LOGAN. That’s largely coincidental. I mean, I think our Treasury maturities are in 
the mid-month and the end of the month. So they do look around, but I think it’s largely 
coincidence. 
CHAIR POWELL. Other questions for Simon or Lorie on anything, not just on the— 
MR. POTTER. Well, on the Desk briefing. [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. On the Desk briefing. Okay. [No response] Seeing none, I’m now 
going to ask for separate votes on the renewal of the NAFA arrangements and the liquidity swap 
April 30–May 1, 2019
82 of 248
 
arrangements. Of course, only current FOMC members may vote. Let’s start with the NAFA 
arrangements, our standing swap lines with Canada and Mexico. Do I have a motion to approve? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. Any comments? [No response] All in favor. [Show of hands] Any 
opposed? [No response] The renewal of the NAFA swap arrangements is approved. Now for 
the renewal of the liquidity swap arrangements. Do I have a motion to approve? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. Any comments? [No response] All in favor. [Show of hands] Any 
opposed? [No response] The renewal of the liquidity swap arrangements is approved. Finally, 
we need a vote to ratify the domestic open market operations conducted since the March 
meeting. Do I have a motion to approve? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. All in favor. [Show of hands] Thanks very much. Let’s now turn to 
a review and discussion of the economic and financial situation. Stacey Tevlin, Beth Anne 
Wilson, and Bill Bassett will provide the briefings. Let’s give people a minute to get set before 
we start. [Pause] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Let’s go ahead. Stacey, over to you. 
MS. TEVLIN.
3 Okay. My materials are in the packet that says “Material for 
Briefing on the U.S. Outlook.” Since our previous meeting, the growth picture has 
improved, but inflation has come in softer. I’ll start with the latest price data. Panel 1 
shows a version of a chart that Chris Nekarda presented in his Board briefing last 
week. The dashed line shows our March Tealbook projection of the monthly change 
in core PCE prices, expressed at an annual rate, while the three dots show the 
considerably weaker readings for January through March that we received since then. 
The key question, of course, is, how much of the weakness is transitory and how 
much, if any, we should take as a signal that the trajectory of inflation is lower. 
Typically, we don’t take much signal from a miss in any one month. For three 
 
3 The materials used by Ms. Tevlin are appended to this transcript (appendix 3). 
April 30–May 1, 2019
83 of 248
 
consecutive months of downside misses, however, we need to dig deeper to see if the 
detailed data can shed light on whether the surprises were idiosyncratic and perhaps 
transitory. In the current circumstance, there are a couple of price categories—for 
instance, portfolio management and apparel—for which we can make a reasonable 
case that the misses were idiosyncratic. But there were also a number of downside 
misses that have no special stories attached to them. 
Another way to sort through these incoming data is to consider alternative 
inflation measures that attempt to reduce or eliminate the influence of idiosyncratic 
relative price changes. One such measure uses a factor model to try to identify 
shocks that are common across detailed categories of prices. The common 
component from that model, shown by the blue line in panel 2, moved down much 
less than core inflation in February and ticked up in March, as the model attributed 
much of the core inflation decline to idiosyncratic movements. Another such 
measure, the Dallas Fed’s trimmed-mean series, edged down in January but has 
moved back up to 2 percent. We read these smoother measures as suggesting that we 
should take just a portion of the recent lower data onboard as signal. 
Accordingly, as you can see back in panel 1, we have penciled in a partial 
bounceback in inflation as some of the recent surprises get reversed, which boosts our 
monthly inflation projection a little above our March forecast in coming months. 
Even so, because we have not completely reversed the incoming surprises, the 
12-month change in core PCE prices—the solid red line in panel 3—which fell to 
1.6 percent in March, moves up only gradually and remains below our previous 
projection through the end of the year. We now expect that the 12-month change in 
core PCE prices will be running at 1.8 percent by the end of the summer and remain 
at that level through year-end, with total PCE inflation—the black line—expected to 
run roughly in line with core. 
Panel 4 summarizes our updated near-term outlook. As shown in the top line, 
GDP rose 3.2 percent in the first quarter, well above our expectation in the March 
(and April) Tealbook. However, much of this strength reflected a large contribution 
from net exports and a sizable buildup in inventories (lines 6 and 7). We expect the 
contributions coming from these two categories to move lower this quarter. Private 
domestic final purchases, line 3, contributed just 1.1 percentage points in the first 
quarter, but we expect growth in this component to step up this quarter. Overall, we 
continue to think that output growth is in the process of slowing from the 3 percent 
pace posted over all of last year. Over Q4, Q1, and Q2, we look for GDP growth to 
average 2.3 percent—the rightmost column. This average is up two-tenths relative to 
March, though I would note it is still down three-tenths since our January projection. 
In this projection, we made two consequential changes to the assumptions that 
underlie our forecast. The first, our new policy rule, which we use mechanically to 
set our path federal funds rate path, is discussed on your next exhibit. Our decision to 
change our policy rule was a response to our view that the rule was not meeting all 
the objectives that we set for it—objectives that are laid out in panel 5. First, our 
policy rule should be a transparent mechanism so that policymakers can see what we 
April 30–May 1, 2019
84 of 248
 
are doing and there is no appearance that we are trying to manipulate the policy 
debate. Second, the rule should generally be unchanging from round to round, so that 
it does not distract from inference about what is happening in the economy. Third, it 
should be consistent with any guidance or communication that the FOMC has given 
about how rates are being set, so that it gives a decent projection of what will actually 
happen. And, finally, the staff policy rule should yield a reasonable overall economic 
projection that can be the basis for a useful Committee discussion. 
As had become increasingly apparent, our previous rule was no longer meeting 
these final two objectives. In the March Tealbook, for example, our assumed rule-
based policy rate path—the blue dashed line in panel 6—was considerably steeper 
than the path implied by the median responses from the March SEP, the circles. And 
the immediate rate hikes implied by our old rule were at odds with the Committee’s 
“patient” language. This discrepancy masked the fact that our underlying economic 
projection was much stronger than the Committee’s—a situation that muddled 
comparisons. 
These considerations led us to modify our assumed rule, as described in panel 7. 
We considered a variety of ways to change the rule but, in the end, decided simply to 
make it less responsive to resource utilization. There are a number of reasons that the 
median policymaker might appear to be downweighting the output gap. We are not 
taking a stand on the precise reasons but view our new rule as able to encompass a 
number of them. Let me also make clear what our rule is not. The rule is not 
necessarily optimal policy, nor is it likely to align with Committee actions under all 
economic conditions. Indeed, there may be a more complicated policy rule that 
would characterize this Committee’s policy behavior under most conditions. But if 
there is, we haven’t yet uncovered it, and our current rule can be thought of as a local 
approximation to some global rule. This change to the policy rule results in a much 
flatter trajectory for the funds rate over the forecast period, the solid blue line in 
panel 6, which in turn lowered our projected paths for longer-term interest rates and 
the exchange value of the dollar and boosted the path of equity prices. 
The blue portions of the bars in panel 8 isolate the overall effect that this change 
to the policy rule has on the level of GDP in each year of the projection. By the end 
of 2021, the revisions to financial conditions implied by the new rule raise the level of 
output about 1 percent above our March forecast. Note that if we had taken on only 
the revisions represented by the blue bars, we would have ended up with GDP growth 
rates that seemed too high to us, based on our understanding of the macro shocks 
hitting the economy and how they are likely to evolve. 
As it turns out, a portion of this upward revision was offset by several other 
changes we made to the projection in this round. First, we took onboard the 
downward revision to measured household wealth for last year that was reported in 
the most recent release of the Financial Accounts of the United States, and we also 
took on higher oil prices. Together, these two factors, which are included in the red 
portion of the bars, shaved about ¼ percent off of the level of output by the end of the 
medium term. Second, we also took the opportunity to assess other aspects of our 
April 30–May 1, 2019
85 of 248
 
procedures that may have been providing unnecessary lift to our projection. This 
assessment did not yield a single “smoking gun” as to why our projection had more 
underlying momentum than many other forecasts. But we did find a few small areas, 
shown by the gray portions, which, taken together, led us to shave another couple of 
tenths off of the level of output by the end of 2021. Putting all these pieces together, 
the level of real GDP at the end is about 0.6 percent higher than in our previous 
projection. 
As shown in panel 9 of your next exhibit, with the output gap widening somewhat 
further in this projection, the unemployment rate is expected to edge down, ending 
the projection at 3.5 percent. I would note that the revision we made to the 
unemployment rate in this projection is smaller than what a straight read of our 
standard Okun’s law relationship would imply, because we continue to assume that in 
a tight labor market, further increases in labor demand will be partly met by a larger-
than-typical increase in labor force participation. 
Some of this decline in the unemployment rate may be reported on Friday, when 
we receive the April employment report. We are projecting the unemployment rate 
will edge down from 3.8 percent to 3.7 percent. The data we have in hand on April 
employment, produced by the payroll processor ADP, are shown by the black line in 
panel 10 and currently point to job gains of 139,000 based on data through April 20, 
which suggests the second quarter got off to a reasonable start. 
The continued tightening of the labor market is expected to put further modest 
upward pressure on core inflation, as shown by the red portions of the bars in 
panel 11. The bars in this exhibit decompose past and projected core PCE inflation 
into the contributions of various fundamental determinants. The recent low inflation 
readings that we have received and that I discussed in exhibit 1 leave 2019 core 
inflation lower than we can explain in terms of fundamentals; this is captured in the 
figure by the yellow region of this year’s bar. We have not carried any of this 
unexplained weakness into next year. A deviation from fundamentals of this 
magnitude is not especially unusual and, typically, is not persistent. 
This panel also shows the other consequential change we made this round to the 
way we put together the staff projection. As you can see from the gray regions of the 
bars, the staff assumption for the underlying rate of inflation—the rate we think 
inflation will return to, absent slack or supply shocks—is constant at 1.8 percent 
through 2021; in previous rounds we had it edging up toward 2 percent. With little 
evidence that inflation expectations—which we think are closely related to underlying 
inflation—are trending higher, we think that a flat trajectory is a more sensible 
assumption. (Thomas will show measures of inflation expectations in his briefing 
later this afternoon.) All told, we now expect that core PCE prices will rise 
1.9 percent in both 2020 and 2021 as continued tightness in resource utilization 
offsets a small drag coming from import prices and pushes core inflation slightly 
above its underlying level. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
86 of 248
 
And, finally, for a few years we have been showing various economic indicators, 
usually the unemployment rate, broken out by race and ethnicity. Today I’d like to 
highlight another indicator. Recently, the Board’s staff have used data from the 
Financial Accounts of the United States and the Survey of Consumer Finances to 
produce a set of Distributional Financial Accounts, or DFAs. The DFAs provide the 
first timely, quarterly, high-quality measure of how wealth is distributed across 
households. It is a rich data set with many interesting results, but for now, panel 12 
provides just one interesting cut of these data. Specifically, the chart shows the 
evolution of average household wealth since 2004 by race and ethnicity. In addition 
to highlighting the large absolute differences in per-household wealth holdings that 
exist across some of these groups, these data indicate that these discrepancies have 
widened noticeably further in the past three years. With that, I’ll turn it over to Beth 
Anne. 
MS. WILSON.
4 Thank you, Stacey. I can literally say without exaggeration that 
this forecast is hot off the press. This morning we got critical real indicators for a 
daunting number of economies, including the euro area, China, Canada, Mexico, 
Taiwan, and Korea. And it was a decidedly mixed bag. On the plus side, first-quarter 
euro-area GDP rose 1½ percent from below 1 percent in Q4. And after Chinese GDP 
came in at a strong 7.3 percent in Q1, today April official Chinese PMI data retraced 
only a bit of their March surge. On the minus side, however, the flash GDP release 
for Mexico showed a contraction in the first quarter (as did Korea’s advance release 
last week). The perplexing decline in Mexican GDP is enough to drag our estimate of 
aggregate foreign GDP growth (the solid line to the left) down a bit further in the first 
quarter. But with growth picking up in the two big regions—China and the euro 
area—that were particularly concerning for global risks, faint hints of improvement in 
global trade, and expectations that some of the Q1 weakness will be transitory, we see 
global growth bottoming out and moving up. 
Our expectations for the path of inflation, primarily thanks to rising oil prices, 
look a touch higher as well. In addition, although medium-term risks endure, some 
acute near-term threats, including that of an imminent trade war with China and an 
abrupt no-deal Brexit, have waned. That said, certainly compared with September 
and even December, the path of foreign real GDP growth and inflation in the 
Tealbook is more subdued. Moreover, as seen in slide 3, even this softer outlook is 
predicated on significantly more monetary policy accommodation, as judged by both 
market expectations and our own projections and, in some cases, greater fiscal 
stimulus. 
The revisions to the interest rate and output paths Stacey just described for the 
United States have also left a “footprint” on the international forecast (discussed on 
slide 4). For starters, the more robust U.S. outlook and lower interest rates provide 
some boost to foreign growth in coming years. And the lower U.S. interest rate path 
means less dollar appreciation (shown to the left), putting the level of the dollar about 
2¾ percent lower at the end of 2021 than in March. On balance, these changes have 
 
4 The materials used by Ms. Wilson are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). 
April 30–May 1, 2019
87 of 248
 
raised our projection for exports (in the middle) and boosted imports (on the right), 
though not enough to overcome the negative surprise of the first-quarter data. And 
we are left with a roughly neutral net export contribution to GDP, on average, over 
the forecast. 
Having so dispensed with the international forecast, on the next slide I would like 
to take a moment to celebrate this day in history. On April 30, 1859, the first weekly 
installment of Charles Dickens’s A Tale of Two Cities was published, the abridged 
initial sentence of which famously reads, “It was the best of times, it was the worst of 
times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness . . . it was the spring of 
hope, it was the winter of despair.” Clearly, Dickens was confused or a splendid two-
handed economist. [Laughter] Either way, what better introduction to a discussion of 
uncertainty? 
For over two years, the International Finance Division has been spearheading a 
network to study global risk, uncertainty, and volatility, or GRUV. Within the Board 
and beyond, we have shared research and thinking on fundamental sources of 
uncertainty (that is, macro, policy, political), how these are measured, and how they 
affect financial markets and the real economy. This work was inspired, in part, by 
listening to conversations around this table. Today I’d like to tell a “Tale of Two 
International Uncertainties,” highlighting our efforts to understand the economic 
effect of uncertainty about foreign economic growth and about trade policy. 
Uncertainty about economic conditions abroad is frequently mentioned as a risk, a 
crosscurrent, or a headwind to the U.S. outlook. However, there is little empirical 
work linking foreign uncertainty to U.S. economic conditions. To begin, slide 6 
presents three uncertainty metrics: the ubiquitous text-based measure of economic 
policy uncertainty, EPU, created by Baker, Bloom, and Davis; a financial market-
based metric, the VIX; and an econometric-based measure of real economic 
uncertainty, REU, which measures whether the economy has become more or less 
predictable month to month. This measure is based on a 2015 AER paper by Jurado, 
Ludvigson, and Ng and recent work by Ludvigson, Ng, and Sai Ma at the Board. 
Note that the VIX, although calculated for U.S. equity prices, is almost perfectly 
correlated with implied volatility abroad. But we have both foreign and domestic 
measures for the EPU and REU, using the global EPU produced by Baker, Bloom, 
and Davis and building our own measure of foreign real economic uncertainty, using 
the same methodology as Ludvigson and others. To do this for a broad range of 
indicators for the foreign G-7 economies plus Switzerland, we construct monthly 
forecasts using an even broader range of real and financial variables. The volatility of 
these forecasting errors averaged gives us an idea of the uncertainty of the real 
economy each month. The country-specific REUs are aggregated into a single 
foreign series, shown in the bottom panel. 
As can be seen, all three types of measures share some common spikes but appear 
to be capturing different aspects of uncertainty. In particular, the more sentiment-
based uncertainty measures, the EPU and the VIX, are more volatile and have moved 
April 30–May 1, 2019
88 of 248
 
up notably in the past year, especially the global EPU, reflecting concerns about the 
policy and growth environment abroad. In contrast, the more objective REU 
measures have stayed subdued, suggesting that, for all the sturm and drang, the 
underlying behavior of the economy has not been that unusual. 
Slide 7 shows the effect of a one standard deviation shock to each U.S. 
uncertainty measure on U.S. IP and equity prices, estimated from a standard monthly 
VAR that includes the usual cast of financial and real characters. For all U.S. 
measures, an increase in uncertainty is associated with a decline in industrial 
production (the left chart). However, the decline is much more pronounced and 
statistically significant for the REU measure. Shocks in all the uncertainty metrics 
also weigh on equity prices (on the right). 
With this set-up, slide 8 addresses the motivating question, how has uncertainty 
about foreign economic conditions weighed on the U.S. economy? Including the VIX 
and domestic and foreign REU in our VAR, we evaluate the effect on U.S. IP of a one 
standard deviation increase in foreign REU. As seen to the left, foreign economic 
uncertainty has a significant negative effect on U.S. IP (the brown line). Performing 
the analogous exercise for foreign EPU, we also observe a negative, though smaller, 
effect (in teal). 
How can we assess recent developments in light of these results? The chart to the 
right shows that foreign real economic uncertainty has moved little over the past year, 
suggesting only a modest effect on the United States now through this channel. In 
contrast, the global EPU has jumped sharply, pointing to a potentially larger hit. We 
are hesitant to take these figures too literally, but the results provide more concrete 
evidence that uncertainty regarding economic conditions abroad has negative 
consequences for the U.S. economy. 
I now turn to the second tale of international uncertainty, that of trade policy 
(slide 9). As seen to the left, since the middle of last year, world GDP, IP, and trade 
have slowed sharply, prompting concerns that this may reflect the drag due to higher 
tariffs and greater ambiguity regarding trade policy. Many factors may drive the 
global declines, however, and it has been difficult to find a clear link between 
economic outcomes and uncertainty about trade policy. A research paper by my IF 
colleagues, “The Economic Effects of Trade Policy Uncertainty,” synthesizes much 
of the work we have done on this topic. Dario, the two Andreas, Matteo, and Patrick, 
or DAAMP—their suggestion, not mine—begin by building two text-based measures 
of trade policy uncertainty, or TPU—an aggregate index based on word searches of 
major newspapers (the teal line on the right) and a firm-based measure constructed by 
searching the transcripts of quarterly earnings calls of thousands of listed firms (seen 
aggregated in brown). By both metrics, trade policy uncertainty has soared since the 
end of 2016. 
Estimating the effect of this uncertainty on the economy is challenging, as 
aggregate indexes of trade policy uncertainty showed little variation for decades 
before the current spike. DAAMP come at this problem in three ways. The first is to 
April 30–May 1, 2019
89 of 248
 
extend the measure of aggregate TPU to exploit variation in trade uncertainty 
associated with sizable shifts in trade policy during the Nixon and Ford 
Administrations, as well as recently. This series allows them to identify a significant 
effect of TPU on aggregate U.S. investment, the magnitude of which implies that the 
recent jump in TPU may have lowered investment 1½ percent, seen in line 1 of the 
table. 
The second approach exploits the fact that firm-level variation in trade policy 
uncertainty is often sizable, even when aggregate variation is small. From the results 
of firm-level investment regressions, including firm TPU and some additional 
calculations, they quantify the hit to U.S. fixed investment from the recent spike in 
TPU to be 1 percent (line 2). 
The third approach uses a novel open-economy DSGE model incorporating 
domestic tariffs, retaliation, and uncertainty about future tariffs. With this calibrated 
model, DAAMP are able to assess how the recent lengthy anticipation of tariff hikes 
and the general rise in uncertainty about trade policy can affect demand. The results 
of the model (line 3) again suggest a combined negative effect on investment of about 
1 percent over a few years. 
The approaches differ, but the results are remarkably consistent—a modest 1 to 
1½ percent drag on the level of investment over several years, which, given the share 
of investment in the U.S. economy, translates into a hit to GDP growth of around a 
tenth a year. 
Why, then, have concerns about uncertainties posed by trade policy seemed so 
proximate, including by many of your corporate interlocutors? DAAMP’s work may 
help shed some light on this. As discussed in slide 11, the effect of trade policy 
uncertainty, though modest in aggregate, has hit certain industries and firms 
particularly hard. The scatterplot shows industries with a higher proportion of firms 
mentioning TPU in their earnings calls last year (the x-axis). These firms saw much 
weaker investment growth (the y-axis). 
Moreover, for TPU-affected individual firms, the drag on investment has been 
hefty. For the 10 percent of firms that cite TPU in their earnings calls, the subsequent 
decline in investment is estimated to average about 20 percent over the first year. 
This result likely generalizes—for industries and countries abroad that are more open 
and have been more targeted by trade policy, the effects of TPU could be more 
sizable. Thus, although the research here and other evidence suggest that, so far, the 
rise in trade policy uncertainty is unlikely to explain the bulk of the global slowdown 
in trade and GDP, our analysis points to greater risks should trade uncertainty 
broaden. 
Stepping back, while this briefing may feel like a novel, it is really just the first 
installment of our GRUV-y tale. We will continue to push forward in our efforts to 
understand global risk, volatility, and uncertainty. But, for now, it is a far, far easier 
thing I do, to hand it off to Bill Bassett. [Laughter] 
April 30–May 1, 2019
90 of 248
 
MR. BASSETT.5 Thank you, Beth Anne. My materials are titled “Material for 
Briefing on Financial Stability Developments.” As you know, the Board will be 
publishing its second public Financial Stability Report in the next few days. This 
briefing pulls generously from the work by System staff and the authors in preparing 
that report and also the work on vulnerabilities from elevated business debt done 
earlier this year. Although business debt remains a concern and major financial asset 
prices have increased in recent months—with some stock market indexes touching 
nominal record highs—the continued resilience of the household sector and key 
financial intermediaries suggest a reasonably limited potential amplification of 
shocks. 
Many indicators of valuation pressures have returned to the fairly high levels seen 
before the significant easing of those pressures last December. For example, the 
forward price-to-earnings ratio of S&P 500 firms (chart 1) has moved back noticeably 
above its historical median. Meanwhile, spreads on high-yield corporate bonds (the 
black line in chart 2) are well below their median values over the past 20 years. 
Spreads on leveraged loans (chart 3) have taken longer than other financial assets to 
recover from the December “risk off” episode and remain above their historical 
medians, but they continue to slide downward. In real estate markets, incoming data 
on residential home prices point to continued but somewhat slower growth, and 
commercial real estate prices (chart 4) have shown signs of cooling in recent data. 
However, home-price-to-rent ratios are running somewhat above a staff estimate of 
their trend, and CRE capitalization rates remain very low. 
As shown in chart 5, the story of nonfinancial-sector leverage continues to be 
divergent. Household debt outstanding has grown at a slower pace than GDP (the 
orange section) for more than a decade. In contrast, the ratio of noncorporate 
business debt to GDP (the red area) is relatively unchanged, and the ratio of corporate 
debt to GDP recently hit an all-time high (the purple area). Even so, the cumulative 
scale of the increase in this ratio pales in comparison to the increase in household 
debt in the mid-2000s, and business debt growth has slowed recently. 
Nonetheless, the composition of newly issued business debt also appears to be 
getting riskier. Net issuance of leveraged loans has been solid since a temporary 
pause around year-end, and the riskiness of those loans continues to increase: The 
share of new loans having debt-to-EBITDA multiples of six times or more, the red 
bars in chart 6, rose to more than 40 percent in the first quarter. If sustained, that 
fraction would be by far the largest, eclipsing the previous annual peaks in 2007, 
2012, and 2018. 
Chart 7 shows the share of outstanding corporate bonds by credit rating, both now 
(the red bars) and compared with 12 months ago (the dotted outlines). Net issuance 
of junk bonds has been subdued in recent months, which has led to a small decline in 
the share outstanding for that category. However, the continued buildup of bonds at 
the lower end of investment-grade, which has created a so-called triple-B cliff, is a 
 
5 The materials used by Mr. Bassett are appended to this transcript (appendix 5). 
April 30–May 1, 2019
91 of 248
 
vulnerability—that is, the risk that an economic downturn combined with already 
high leverage could create an avalanche of newly downgraded junk bonds that would 
significantly increase the amount of below-investment-grade debt relative to the 
demand for that type of debt. 
Of course, the financial position of the holders of business debt is an important 
factor in considering the ultimate consequences of a large wave of corporate 
downgrades. Life insurance companies are the largest institutional holders of 
corporate bonds and have maintained leverage ratios—the blue line in chart 8—at 
about the middle of their 20-year range. While life insurers are not required to mark 
their holdings to market, a wave of downgrades would have significant negative 
effects on their regulatory capital ratios and perhaps market confidence in their 
financial condition. On a brighter note, bank capital levels (not shown) have declined 
only a little from their post-crisis highs despite higher payouts the past few years. As 
discussed in the special topic memo distributed in February, the staff believes that 
banks are well positioned to absorb even quite significant losses should they emerge 
from the risks they are taking in business lending. Moreover, confidential data on 
hedge fund leverage indicate that it declined materially during the market swoon at 
the end of last year, and the most recent SCOOS suggests that there was not a 
resurgence of leverage in that sector during the first quarter. Taken together, the staff 
continues to assess vulnerabilities from financial leverage as low overall. 
Vulnerabilities from liquidity and maturity transformation in the financial system 
also seem little changed at a relatively low level. We remain cognizant of the 
structural vulnerability inherent in the ability of investors to withdraw funds from 
debt mutual funds far more quickly than the underlying assets can be sold and settled. 
As shown in chart 9, bank loan funds have continued to sustain moderate outflows 
through the first quarter of 2019 after having experienced record outflows in 
December. Nonetheless, the market has continued to function well, and secondary 
market prices of loans have largely retraced their earlier declines. Meanwhile, high-
yield bond funds have seen consecutive months of meaningful inflows for the first 
time in more than two years. 
In recent years, we have been highlighting the move away from prime money 
market funds after the SEC reforms were put in place at the end of 2016. However, 
with the rise in interest rates, it appears that investor appetite for retail prime money 
funds—the light blue area in chart 10—is clearly increasing. And assets of 
institutional prime funds—in dark blue—grew about 16 percent last year, though they 
still remain just a fraction of their previous highs. Likewise, we are increasingly 
hearing about deposit pricing pressures from banks, but we still see the high levels of 
liquid assets and decades-low reliance on short-term funding instruments at those 
firms (chart 11) as significant sources of resilience. 
Finally, turning to chart 12, we are closely studying potential risks to financial 
stability from the increased interconnectedness created by bank lending to nonbank 
financial firms. This chart shows that the rapid growth of such commitments in the 
past six years has resulted in a nearly 80 percent cumulative increase to about 
April 30–May 1, 2019
92 of 248
 
$1.3 trillion, of which roughly half is undrawn. As we focus on the dark blue and 
beige regions at the bottom, note that almost $400 billion reflects financing of 
standard business, real estate, and consumer finance companies that are mostly small 
and diversified. Two other areas, however, may reflect additional bank exposure to 
risky business debt. Specifically, moving up the stack a bit, the gray area shows the 
substantial growth in financing provided to special purpose entities, which include 
facilities supporting CLOs and asset-backed securities. In addition, the still-thin but 
widening slice of red at the top represents exposure to private equity, business 
development corporations, and credit funds, which in turn are important direct 
providers of business credit. The staff continue to monitor and learn more about 
banks’ activities in this diverse and rapidly growing business line. 
In sum, the staff continues to see low financial and household leverage combined 
with contained funding risks working to offset concerns about high asset valuations 
and elevated corporate indebtedness. That concludes our prepared remarks, and we 
would be happy to address any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Questions for our briefers? President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Stacey, I’ve got two questions for you. You 
made two big changes that you talked about in the Tealbook. One is the policy rule, and the 
second was your view of underlying inflation. I applaud you for both of those changes, so I 
appreciate your making them. The one thing that you didn’t change, which is your view of the 
output gap—I’m just curious, did you think about it, or did you talk about it and kick it around? 
Because instead of changing the policy rule, you could have just reassessed the output gap and 
gotten to the same place, and that would also explain the underlying inflation. So I’m just 
curious how you all think about it. 
MS. TEVLIN. We did talk about changing the output gap. We talk about changing the 
output gap every round, multiple times, for years and years, right? So that’s a regular— 
MR. KASHKARI. I’m going to keep asking. 
MS. TEVLIN. —part of our discussion. We didn’t see evidence this time that led us to 
think we were in a place that we were uncomfortable with. We did think about changing our 
April 30–May 1, 2019
93 of 248
 
natural rate or some other pieces of the projection in order to change our policy rate path, and we 
did talk about a lot of different ways that we might change our policy rule. 
When we were trying to set the policy rule, we wanted to calibrate it according to what 
you all are telling us about what you’re thinking. And your natural rate, I think, is at 4.3 right 
now—at least the median, not yours personally. In order to really change the gap a lot, we 
would have had to take on something that was different from what you were reporting in the 
SEP. We also could have imagined some short-run natural rate that was much lower than the 
long-run natural rate now. We thought that would be pretty complicated, to be carrying around 
more starred variables, guessing at what you all were thinking about starred variables that are at 
odds with what’s in your SEP, and we thought it was simpler to move in this direction. But there 
are obviously a lot of different ways we could have done this. We were hoping that this one was 
a way to encompass a variety of views because we weren’t going to be able to please everyone. 
MR. KASHKARI. Fair enough. Thank you. My second quick question is on your chart 
on average household wealth, which is panel 12. I just have to ask—are the units right? 
MS. TEVLIN. Yes. 
MR. KASHKARI. It just seems like they’re much larger than I would have expected 
across the board. 
MS. TEVLIN. These are means. Even within these groups, there is an awful lot of 
wealth inequality, and so I think these are looking pretty high because there are just some really 
rich people on the high end. 
MR. KASHKARI. Okay. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Daly. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
94 of 248
 
MS. DALY. I want to follow up on the u* question. So I know what you’re trying to do, 
and that’s totally fine. But does your staff view differ when you go into your calculations? And 
what would it take you to move u* down relative to, say, 4.5 percent or something—I guess it’s 
4.5? 
MR. CLARIDA. No, 4.6. 
MS. DALY. Okay, 4.6. So what would it take for you to move it down? What kind of 
information would you be taking in? 
MS. TEVLIN. We look at a few different things when we’re deciding what we want u* 
to be. We have a couple of different state-space models, which are currently suggesting that 
we’re in an okay place. As you know, we also look at demographic factors, things like that. We 
take all of these things together, and I think we would need to see a lot of them move in a 
particular direction. We do debate this actively every time. There are definitely people on the 
staff who would like to lower it and other people who feel like that’s what we always do when 
we get to this point in the cycle and then end up regretting it. We’re certainly open to more ways 
of analyzing this. It’s an ongoing discussion. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you. I have a question for Beth Anne about trade policy 
uncertainty. I’m looking at page 10 of the handout here—the effects look like minus 1 to a 
minus 1.5 there. I just want you to step back from the model and give me an interpretation of 
these results here. Markets are thinking that the shock won’t last all that long because we’ll get 
some resolution of the uncertainty. This will go away, and to some extent they are already 
pricing in that kind of thing going on. So how should I think about this? How persistent is this 
shock? And what are the risks here? Suppose we don’t get resolution to trade policy uncertainty 
April 30–May 1, 2019
95 of 248
 
and it turns out to be more of a permanent shock. Would these numbers get a lot bigger? Or if 
this turns out to be a very temporary thing, would these estimates turn out to be a lot smaller? 
MS. WILSON. One of the ways in which we can look at that particular question is in the 
context of the model. And the simulation that’s done in the model looks at two different shocks. 
One is, let’s say there’s an anticipation of higher tariffs, with some probability two years in the 
future that we’re going to raise tariffs and some probability we won’t. That gets at the attenuated 
anticipation that some market participants or businesses and firms may be experiencing. Another 
is to get at the overall uncertainty—which is that the mean tariff is the same, but for the range, 
there’s just a greater chance of having a much higher tariff or a much lower tariff. 
I think your question is a little mix of both—which is, for an extended period, we don’t 
know what the outcome will be. In the model, sort of calibrated to the current economy and the 
size of the shocks that we’re experiencing now from the indexes, we see that just the pure 
weighting effect has about half of this. So it wouldn’t necessarily be much larger. I think what 
we’re finding is, what would be larger is if the tariffs themselves were broader—they hit a much 
broader range of products, they hit a broader range of firms and industries or countries, or even if 
that period of uncertainty were prolonged even more than is in our model. So we’re already, in 
our own economy, a year and a half, or two years, into this. I think you could see bigger effects, 
certainly, than we’re seeing now. 
MR. BULLARD. As a policymaker, should I worry about the idea that the consensus on 
trade is broken down, and you’re just not sure what’s going to happen over the next five years, 
let’s say? That would be the kind of thing that would get the bigger shock, I guess? 
MS. WILSON. I think that has to do with how we measure trade uncertainty. This 
particular metric is sort of a sentiment-based one. I think what you’re talking about is that the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
96 of 248
 
fundamental structure of the trade environment has been shaken, and how do we estimate the 
effects of that? And that, to my mind, seems like something that should be fairly large, and the 
sentiment indicators may not be picked up or may not be experienced by a broad number of 
firms. And so either we need better metrics to capture the size of that effect or, as it becomes 
more sustained and more ingrained— 
MR. BULLARD. So you don’t think that’s what people are talking about when they 
answer those kinds of questions in a survey? They’re not thinking of exactly that, but—“I don’t 
know what the heck the trade relations are going to be like in the future, and, therefore, I don’t 
know how to run my business.” 
MS. WILSON. So these are news-based, or— 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. 
MS. WILSON. These are news-based. So it’s what fraction of major newspapers are 
running stories about great uncertainty. And those articles don’t distinguish, necessarily, 
between “The whole structure of our trading system may be in doubt” and “Boy, steel and 
aluminum are really, really upsetting people in this country” or “Soy farmers are really upset 
about this.” So I think it’s some mix of that, and that goes to, I think, the framework of how 
we’re trying to better capture uncertainty. And so I can’t speak—in this way, I don’t think we’re 
completely capturing that. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay. Thank you. 
MR. KAMIN. President Bullard, if I could just add on to Beth Anne’s remarks. So 
we’ve been trying to reconcile, in some sense, three sets of information. One of them is, 
basically, discussions about trade policy and trade policy uncertainty as we see in the media and 
as your corporate contacts are reporting. A second factor is reaction of financial markets to news 
April 30–May 1, 2019
97 of 248
 
about trade policy. And then the final set of information is about actual responses in the real 
economy. And we’ve been trying to reconcile with other information the fact that there is both 
evidence of worries about trade policy, as is evident in the news, and strong financial market 
responses to trade policy. Both of those are strong responses to trade policy that don’t seem to 
line up with the fact that actual economic responses, as evidenced by investment, seem to be 
small. 
What it could be is just that the economic responses are being masked by a relatively 
strong economic environment here in the United States, with tax cuts, still low interest rates, et 
cetera, et cetera. And then if we move to a situation in which, basically, the trade talks with 
China failed and a much more pessimistic mood set in, and that coincided with some cooling of 
the economy, that’s when you could see much more adverse responses. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? [No response] If not, then let’s begin the 
opportunity to comment on financial stability with President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I really appreciate the work that the staff is doing 
to assess risk to financial stability, and I think the Board’s public semiannual Financial Stability 
Report is a really important enhancement to our communications. 
While there has not been much change in the level of risk since the previous report, 
business debt remains a concern, and standards and terms have continued to deteriorate. And the 
losses on these loans could amplify an economic downturn. So I think it’s appropriate that the 
report highlights this particular vulnerability. I also think that the section reporting on the 
collective market and public-sector views on financial stability risk is a useful addition that could 
help us identify nascent risks in the broader financial sector. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
98 of 248
 
Now, the relationship between financial stability risks and macrostability risks, and the 
use of macroprudential tools in monetary policy to address these risks, are important topics 
facing the Board of Governors and this Committee. 
Last November, the Conference of Presidents Committee on Financial Stability held its 
second tabletop exercise, a guided discussion meant to further clarify our thinking about the 
strategy for dealing with an economy facing increased financial stability risk. Governor 
Brainard, chair of the Board’s Financial Stability Committee, along with Presidents Kaplan, 
Kashkari, Rosengren, Williams, and myself, participated in this exercise. And I want to take the 
opportunity to thank the System team, led by Ned Prescott of the Cleveland Bank staff, for 
constructing the exercise and leading us through it. I have sent the Committee the staff’s write-
up, which we plan to make into a working paper for public release. I thought it would be useful 
to summarize some of the findings for you today. 
The exercise entailed a two-part hypothetical scenario that included a boom period and a 
downturn and generated tensions between macroeconomic and financial stability goals. In the 
first stage of the exercise, the economy in the second quarter of 2020 was assumed to be doing 
well. Inflation was close to target, and the labor market was healthy, with low unemployment. 
The FOMC had been gradually tightening monetary policy, and the markets were expecting 
50 basis points more of tightening over the next 12 months. But the economy also faced some 
financial stability risks in the form of high valuations of nonfinancial business debt, commercial 
real estate and equities, and levels that exceeded their current levels. Although the staff 
presented us with three potential risk scenarios that could play out in six months’ time, we were 
not told which would occur so that our first-stage analysis wouldn’t be influenced by knowing in 
advance what was going to happen. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
99 of 248
 
In the second stage of the exercise, six months had passed, and it had become clear that a 
negative CRE shock had hit and output growth was slowing. Commercial real estate prices and 
transaction volumes had dropped sharply and delinquencies were rising, with a significant effect 
on some regional and community banks. 
Now, our discussion of economic conditions and appropriate monetary policy and 
macroprudential policy actions to take in each stage of the exercise generated some insights that 
I think will help inform the FOMC’s and Board’s financial stability work. The first insight was 
that it would be useful to have more granular information pertaining to emerging risk, including 
who is exposed to leveraged lending and commercial real estate risk. 
Second, during a boom, our macroprudential tools are limited in their ability to control 
risk in an asset class or, more narrowly, in institutions. The use of guidance has been constrained 
by the GAO’s interpretation that guidance is regulation. And putting regulations in effect takes 
significant time, given the procedures that must be followed. 
The countercyclical capital buffer is a broad tool affecting all asset classes in which a 
G-SIB bank invests, so it’s more useful for providing resiliency than dealing with risk in a 
narrow asset class. 
The stress test can be more targeted, but because it doesn’t apply to all banks or to 
nonbanks, risks can migrate. Under the proposed changes, regional banks would no longer be 
subject to annual stress tests, so it would be worth thinking about whether dividend payments 
could be restricted in those off-years in case a regional bank’s portfolio were to quickly 
deteriorate. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
100 of 248
 
Although other tools have some limits on how they can be used to address a rising risk, 
the Board’s new Financial Stability Report is an important communications tool that could be a 
way to implement some moral suasion against risky activity. 
A third result of the exercise was that both the CCyB and stress-test tools entail potential 
tensions between macro and microprudential goals during a downturn. On the one hand, if the 
CCyB had been increased, keeping it on during a downturn would help mitigate risks at the bank 
level, but dropping the CCyB could support lending in a weak economy. Balancing these 
tradeoffs may be difficult. It may be useful to look at high-frequency indicators when deciding 
whether or not to release the CCyB in addition to the low-frequency indicators and trends that 
will be used when deciding whether or not to increase it. 
Similar tradeoffs also affect the stress tests. In a downturn, making the scenarios tighter 
may help lower risk, but making them looser can support lending. Moreover, there are potential 
risks to releasing the results of a failed stress test, which could put liquidity pressure on the bank, 
thereby weakening the bank. 
These lessons and the discussions we had during the exercise show that there are no easy 
answers for balancing our financial stability and macrostability responsibilities. In my view, 
although we may prefer to use the macroprudential tools for financial stability, they are 
limited—which does suggest that monetary policy may need to play a role, at least in some 
cases. In addition, the constraints on our macroprudential tools reinforce the need to provide the 
structural resilience of the financial system across the business and financial cycles when using 
our tools of capital and liquidity requirements, regular stress testing, resolution planning, and 
working with the industry to enhance strategies and improve cyber resiliency. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
101 of 248
 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d like to add some exclamation marks to 
the box in the Financial Stability Report that discusses vulnerabilities associated with elevated 
business debt. I thought it was a very good, but very sobering, discussion. 
The memo shows that the quantity of leveraged loans and high-yield bonds is now more 
than $2 trillion. This is substantially larger than the subprime residential real estate market in 
2007. Banks are highly connected to the leveraged loan market, particularly through their 
involvement in collateralized loan obligations (CLOs). They are among the largest underwriters, 
they hold significant shares of the triple-A tranches and mezzanine financing of CLOs, and they 
extend credit to asset managers and other investors that are active in this market. Asset 
managers are quick to note that the triple-A tranches of CLOs performed much better than 
collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) during the crisis, that CLO structures have improved for 
greater credit enhancements. 
There are two important caveats, however, attached to these observations. First, CLO 
holders can suffer large losses when prices on triple-A tranches fall because of a downgrade. 
One of the largest losses for processing banks during the financial crisis arose from the 
markdowns of such high-quality tranches. 
Second, CLO vulnerabilities may expose firms to rollover or refinancing risks. You may 
recall that CLO issuance virtually halted for several years during the financial crisis. I am not 
optimistic that the next recession will be much different in this respect, and such a seize-up could 
place great strain on non-investment-grade firms needing to roll over or refinance their loans. I 
am not confident that in a recession, banks will be anxious to step in to provide additional 
April 30–May 1, 2019
102 of 248
 
financing to these firms. The likely result would be significant financial distress that would 
exacerbate any downturn. 
I view the CLO market as being driven to a large extent by reaching-for-yield behavior. 
It is not surprising that Japanese banks have a large presence in this market in both the United 
States and Europe. Faced with low domestic rates for an extended period of time, these banks 
find the substantial premiums on CLOs relative to Treasury securities attractive, coming from a 
yield-starved environment. As I understand it, significant yield usually comes with significant 
risks. Significant reaching for yield shortly before a major downturn did not go well in the 
previous recession, and I don’t expect it will go much better in the next recession. I view this as 
a significant financial stability risk. 
What can the Federal Reserve do, given that we don’t have authority over asset managers 
or the power to regulate CLOs? This is very consistent with what President Mester just said, but 
I think we could shine a much brighter light on this risk. Among the things we could do are 
highlight this risk in the public Financial Stability Report; require holding companies to report 
both their overall exposure to CLOs and leveraged loans and how much of their income is 
derived from leveraged loans; stress-test the potential run on leveraged loans in a recession; 
encourage international bank reporting of exposure and working with the Financial Stability 
Board; and encourage, through the FSOC, that the OFR study this issue and prepare a report on 
asset managers’ exposure to CLOs and leveraged lending. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. We will soon be publishing our second Financial 
Stability Report. As it will show, since the December turbulence, valuations of risky assets have 
rebounded, in some cases to new highs, and leverage among risky corporate borrowers has 
April 30–May 1, 2019
103 of 248
 
resumed its ascent. The level of valuations is now again in the elevated range of our 
vulnerabilities assessment. The overall valuation of the stock market has regained its previous 
peak, and investors’ appetite for risk is again quite high. 
Concerns about elevated valuations are amplified by vulnerabilities from business debt, 
which is close to the highest level experienced over the past 20 years and concentrated among 
the riskiest borrowers. The ratio of debt to assets for speculative-grade and unrated firms is close 
to its highest level in those two decades, and that’s also true for corporate borrowers overall. 
Moreover, firms that have high leverage, high interest expense ratios, and low earnings in cash 
holdings have been increasing their debt loads the most. 
As we look at business-sector assets in more detail, commercial real estate capitalization 
rates have been declining steadily since 2010. They’re at historically low levels, implying very 
high valuations of commercial real estate relative to rents. And levels of risk appetite in this 
sector remain very high. 
As we know from previous downturns, a high level of corporate indebtedness is an 
important amplifier, with highly indebted businesses reacting to adverse shocks by making 
outsized pullbacks in both employment and investment. 
Currently, over half of the record large “universe” of investment-grade bonds outstanding 
have the lowest investment-grade rating. Any downgrade of these bonds in the face of a 
negative shock would move these bonds to the high-yield market, testing the liquidity of that 
market and potentially inducing forced sales by bond mutual funds. 
There are similar concerns in the area of leveraged lending, in which elevated levels have 
been accompanied by an erosion in lending standards. The most telling indication of that erosion 
April 30–May 1, 2019
104 of 248
 
is the share of covenant-lite transactions, which now represents roughly 80 percent of the entire 
market, up from less than 30 percent of the market a decade ago. 
Bank loan mutual funds have become increasingly important in this market, purchasing 
about one-fifth of newly originated leveraged loans. It’s encouraging that, during the December 
turmoil, those bank loan funds were able to meet redemptions in the face of a record $13 billion 
in net outflows for the month, which accounts for nearly 10 percent of net assets. But these 
vehicles are inherently vulnerable, due to the mismatch between the liquidity of potential 
redemptions and that of loans that are highly illiquid, and it would be premature to assume they 
would perform as well in a more prolonged period of stress. 
In particular, an important reason loan funds fared so well in December is that managers 
of CLOs saw the assets sold by the funds as an investment opportunity, and that can be viewed 
as positive because the structure surrounding CLOs is, in principle, more resilient than those 
mutual funds. CLOs currently hold the majority of institutional leveraged loans, about $700 
billion, and exhibited resilience through the Global Financial Crisis, as was mentioned earlier. 
The CLO investor base has shifted toward investors with longer-term capital commitments, and, 
as frequently stated, banks hold roughly half of triple-A-rated tranches. But, of course, we know 
that in a prolonged period of stress, those ratings would themselves come under pressure, and the 
stronger structures may be offset by the weakness of the underlying loans. 
On balance, it’s hard to know with certainty how today’s structures will fare in a period 
of prolonged stress when defaults are rising, which was not the case in December. In addition, 
we don’t know much about how CLO managers would compare with banks in terms of workouts 
with their corporate borrowers under prolonged stress conditions, and we don’t fully understand 
the identity of the ultimate owners of CLO tranches and what incentives those managers have to 
April 30–May 1, 2019
105 of 248
 
provide market liquidity during stressful periods. The Financial Stability Report provides some 
detail on the holders. But, apart from large domestic bank holdings, there’s considerable 
uncertainty about the other ultimate holders. 
More broadly, the low interest rate environment suggests that very low long-term interest 
rates are likely to continue, providing the backdrop of an ongoing “reach for yield” environment. 
Valuation pressures are likely to remain elevated and may rise further as the economic expansion 
continues. Those increasing valuation pressures will leave the economy more vulnerable to 
negative shocks. 
I’ve noted previously the increasing link between financial imbalances and the business 
cycle. One reason this pattern may have emerged in recent cycles is the flattening of the Phillips 
curve. In particular, in the 1960s, ’70s, and ’80s, when the Phillips curve was steep, there would 
be a natural tendency for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates to sustain full employment 
and target inflation as the expansion continued. In contrast, in the past few cycles and today’s 
environment of a very flat short-run Phillips curve, there may be very little impetus from tighter 
resource utilization to inflation and, accordingly, little reason to raise rates when the economy 
does well. At the same time, sustained good economic conditions are naturally conducive to risk 
appetite and tend to push up asset valuations. 
In the steep Phillips curve era, rising interest rates as inflation rose along with 
employment would have damped the increase in asset prices and risk appetite. Today, those 
mechanisms aren’t at work, which may mean a tendency for financial excesses and imbalances 
to grow late in the cycle. 
A key implication is that we can’t rely on monetary policy to restrain the financial cycle 
as much as was the case in the past. In order to position monetary policy to support the return of 
April 30–May 1, 2019
106 of 248
 
trend inflation to its objective with a positive output gap, we should be looking to other 
macroprudential tools to temper the financial cycle. 
One mechanism many other central banks are using is to build countercyclical resilience 
by activating the countercyclical capital buffer. We’ve talked in previous meetings how that has 
the double benefit of building extra resilience at the core of the system and then being released as 
the economy weakens to allow banks to lend more when lending is most needed. 
If those macroprudential tools can’t be deployed adequately, monetary policy would need 
to carry a greater burden in leaning against financial excesses. And that would be unfortunate, in 
my view, because it may undermine the sustained achievement of our inflation objective. We’ll 
get back to these issues again when we talk about policy tomorrow. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you. Let me add to the chorus on corporate debt. As I’ll say in 
the economics go-round, I’ve been thinking about recent events through the lens of sentiment, 
and I want to emphasize the macroeconomic implications of corporate leverage, as Governor 
Brainard mentioned and as discussed in the memo. 
With companies so leveraged, we’re living in a somewhat different world, one where a 
negative shift in the economy or even in beliefs about the economy would likely spread faster 
than we’re accustomed to. Leveraged companies have a bias toward defensive action: cutting 
employment, stopping investment, and pricing for volume. This is consistent with Beth Anne’s 
analysis of the effect of real economic uncertainty on industrial production. All that creates the 
potential for increased volatility, particularly to the downside, and we may want to further 
incorporate that into our models and into our thinking. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
107 of 248
 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’ll start by briefly reviewing where I see 
financial stability and talk a bit about how our stress tests deal with the potential incurring of 
losses by the highly leveraged corporations that we have been talking about and also deal with 
some of the related work on this that’s being done at the Financial Stability Board. 
First, financial conditions have continued to improve since the turbulence we saw late last 
year. A number of asset prices have returned to their previous levels, but the more 
accommodative tone of FOMC communications has been an important factor in boosting those 
asset prices. In general, as a result, risk appetite still seems a touch below the levels that we hit 
last year. 
In the financial stability and vulnerabilities discussion at the meeting of the Financial 
Stability Board that we held last Friday, generously hosted by Vice Chair Williams, there was a 
general sense that we had had a test of systemic resiliency at the end of last year—perhaps not a 
grueling test, but a genuine test—and that the system had passed. And the situation among high-
yield bonds and leveraged loans is particularly notable. Spreads on those assets had ground 
down to post-crisis lows before widening dramatically last fall. Issuance of certain kinds of 
leveraged loans completely ceased for a time last December, we’ll all remember, and since then 
spreads have contracted again but remain solidly in the middle of their post-crisis ranges as 
opposed to the extremes. And as Governor Brainard mentioned, looking at last year’s test, we 
saw notable outflows from bank loan mutual funds holding these types of loans without really 
any disruption in the system, notwithstanding the maturity mismatch between their liabilities and 
these assets. Finally, commercial real estate remains “frothy,” but price gains appear to have 
slowed, and residential real estate markets on a national basis aren’t too far from the levels that 
would be suggested by fundamentals. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
108 of 248
 
I turn now to debt owed by households and businesses. The long and continuous 
deleveraging of the household sector seems to be continuing, 2018 being the 11th year in a row 
that household debt grew less than nominal GDP. Now, if we’re all talking about business debt, 
and that is perfectly neat and right, underwriting standards have been eroding since the end of the 
recession, and the riskier forms of debt—the combination of leveraged loans and high-yield 
bonds—have accelerated in recent quarters. 
It’s worth keeping the rise in business debt in perspective, however. Business debt has 
risen relative to GDP in recent years, but that increase does not appear outsized from a cyclical 
perspective. Business debt always tends to rise relative to GDP in expansions, and this 
expansion has been no exception. In particular, the path of business borrowing looks nothing 
like the rise in household debt from a decade and a half ago that was a harbinger of systemic 
issues, as opposed to a business cycle. 
Regarding individual corporations, the leverage of the most exposed firms is quite high 
by historical standards, but it stopped growing a few years ago. It’s been going sideways since. 
So, that said, with the issuance of this combination of high-yield bonds and leveraged loans 
picking up in recent months, it’s important that we keep an eye on developments there, but that 
we also keep them in perspective. 
Given the elevated level of business debt, it is important to understand whether key 
financial institutions are particularly exposed. Pension funds and life insurance companies, with 
their long-maturity liabilities, are the traditional holders of corporate debt in the United States. 
An increase in corporate defaults would put pressure on those institutions, something that we 
saw play out in the late 1980s, the early 1990s. But life insurance companies look pretty strong 
April 30–May 1, 2019
109 of 248
 
for the moment. We should continue monitoring developments, but, again, there doesn’t seem to 
be a particular reason for concern there. 
The nation’s large banks have to demonstrate annually that they can pass our stress test. 
So let me just take a moment to highlight the key features of the stress test, and President 
Rosengren asked about some of them that relate to business debt. In short, I think that the 
exercises severely stress banks’ direct exposures as well as a range of plausible indirect 
exposures to give us confidence, again, in the systemic stability of the current situation. 
Each year, there are key elements of the scenarios that we put forward that are essentially 
repeated with minor variations, and those key elements provide a great deal of direct stress on 
loans to corporations and private businesses as well as loans that are backed by commercial 
properties. In particular, every year’s scenario features movements in the stock market, in the 
triple-B spread, and commercial real estate prices that are on a par with what happened in the 
Great Recession. We test that every year. 
Banks can have indirect exposures, too, obviously—for example, loans to the nonbanks 
that play an increasingly important role on the business credit market. But the stress tests pick 
up loans and other connections to nonbanks and subject them to losses associated with a severe 
recession. A sudden increase in corporate defaults might be accompanied by disruptions in 
financial markets as participants retrench suddenly, but in the stress test, the effects of this kind 
of panic are picked up by the global market shock. Each stress test essentially has two different 
shocks, a macro shock and then a market shock, and the market shock picks up exactly those 
sorts of potential follow-on effects as well as the assumption that each bank’s largest 
counterparty defaults. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
110 of 248
 
So I think the core of the financial system, the largest banks and their broker-dealer 
subsidiaries, are in a position to weather the consequences should we see a business-sector 
downturn, because we are testing this with really quite severe stresses every year. 
Now, of course, one of the reasons we’re concerned about bank underwriting standards is 
that this is an “originate to distribute” market. So where has all the risk been distributed to? A 
benign possibility is that these risks are spread across a range of long-term investors, pensions, 
insurers, direct holdings to mutual funds that are well placed to bear the risk, and, again, we have 
had at least a test, if not a tough test, at the end of last year that that may be exactly what’s 
happening. But we shouldn’t be satisfied with conjecture, we should dig deeper, and so at the 
Financial Stability Board we have stood up a process at the beginning of this year to assess 
exposures of major intermediaries of all types across all jurisdictions to leveraged loans and the 
increased corporate debt. 
As President Rosengren noted in the previous go-round, Norinchukin Bank was a large 
purchaser of CLO exposures, and anecdotally we have heard from the large participants in these 
markets that Japanese banks in general have accumulated large exposures. But what we’re doing 
at the Financial Stability Board is to quantify and to look very precisely, again, across all 
jurisdictions as to where those bodies are buried, where those exposures lie. We expect to 
complete that during the course of this year, and that would allow all of us in all jurisdictions to 
have a much better sense as to whether there are policy steps that would be appropriate. Thank 
you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I, too, want to thank the staff for their work on 
this Financial Stability Report. The report does continue to point to historically high asset price 
April 30–May 1, 2019
111 of 248
 
valuations and corporate indebtedness with growing exposure to riskier lending, as highlighted in 
chart 12 of the staff briefing handout, still with assurances that bank capital is strong, at least 
relative to pre-crisis levels. And I appreciate Governor Quarles’s confidence and his views on 
the resilience of the system. 
Yet, even as the noted vulnerabilities remain prominent, large banks continue to pay out 
significant shares of their earnings and advocate for reduced capital positions. In fact, as stated 
in the quantitative surveillance materials, common equity Tier 1 ratios at G-SIBs were 
unchanged, on net, over the fourth quarter. 
As Tealbook A highlights, among its alternative scenarios, a downturn with financial 
amplification is typically a more severe one. Whether or not we realize this kind of scenario, 
such a possibility argues in the direction of further strengthening capital positions at a time when 
credit flows are solid and profitability is high. This would seem consistent with the objectives of 
countercyclical capital policy and well aligned with this Committee’s interest in supporting long-
run economic health and the financial stability outlook. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I anticipated that there would be a 
lot of discussion of corporate debt buildup and CLOs and leveraged loans and related stuff, so 
I’m actually not going to talk about that. But I do want to pick up on President Rosengren’s 
earlier comment that in a very low rate environment, there was a greater risk of reach for yield 
behavior, and we should be looking for that. I completely agree with that. 
I went through the report, which I also thought was very good and very helpful, pretty 
carefully. And I have been watching this elevated asset price issue, which Governor Brainard 
highlighted in her summary of the report, and I think this is just a recurring topic that in a very 
April 30–May 1, 2019
112 of 248
 
low rate environment—and especially now that we seem to be at the end of or near the end of 
this tightening cycle—understanding what is a normal asset price and what are the movements in 
asset prices given the rate environment is really important. 
When I went through the details of the report, actually, I think it is a bit of a mixed 
message there. Equity prices have clearly bounced back, but that’s not because of strong profits, 
or it seems to be more of a discount factor. The long rates are lower, and equity prices have 
come up. In fact, when you look at the chart, it shows the equity price premium relative to a 
10-year Treasury yield that’s not particularly low relative to history. So there’s no real sign, at 
least on the equity price premium, of elevated prices. 
You see the same thing when you look at the bond prices adjusted for expected losses. 
That’s roughly at its historical mean. If you look at capitalization rates, I agree they have come 
down a lot, but, again, relative to 10-year yields, real yields, they are not particularly low. 
What I think is most interesting is what’s happening in the housing market. I actually 
had that on the top of my list the past year or two, that house prices kept growing and growing 
relative to trend, but we have seen some slowing in house price appreciation. Interestingly, I 
thought there was a great chart in the draft of the report that showed the distribution of house 
prices across metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs). And one of the lessons to me of the housing 
bubble and crisis was this enormous distribution—that if you look at the means, you really were 
missing the picture, because the really hot markets were the ones that were going to kill us, not 
the ones that were cold all along. Again, looking at things today, there are some elevated areas 
that are more elevated than others, but the distribution across MSAs actually looks pretty normal, 
and the house-price-to-rent ratio is only a touch elevated relative to history. And, again, if you 
April 30–May 1, 2019
113 of 248
 
thought about this in terms of a lower 10-year real yield, it’s probably right around its historical 
norms. 
I only bring this up because I know that we’re all focused on the corporate debt, but I 
think we should be looking holistically through all of these markets for signs of excesses. And 
my own reading is that the slowing of house prices, the slowing of commercial real estate 
prices—kind of, my reading of the stock market is that we’re not seeing any real buildup or 
excesses, at least right now, in terms of those segments, at least so far. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And that wraps up our financial stability opportunity to 
comment, and we will now take a coffee break and resume in 19 minutes at 3:20 on that clock. 
Thanks. 
[Coffee break] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Let’s pick it up with the economic go-round, beginning with 
President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The GDP report for the first quarter was 
stronger than I anticipated. Although the household sector was weak, with soft consumption in 
residential investment, as I had expected, other components of GDP were stronger. If the 
weakness in consumption were to persist, that would be concerning. However, I am viewing the 
lull in the first quarter’s household-sector activity as a temporary reaction to government 
shutdowns and stock market declines that have been reversed. 
We also cannot rule out the possibility of some residual seasonality in these data. March 
retail sales data, as well as discussions with businesses in the First District, suggest strong 
growth in sales in March and April. So my expectation is that growth in the first half of the year, 
and 2019 as a whole, is likely to be above my estimate of potential growth. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
114 of 248
 
While growth surprised on the upside, incoming information on inflation has been 
weaker than expected, as noted in the earlier report. However, for a variety of reasons, it seems 
likely that the recent softness in inflation indicators will prove temporary. Most of the softness 
was registered in idiosyncratic areas. Consistent with this, the CPI trimmed mean and the 
median CPI did not show the same softness as the overall series. Furthermore, labor markets 
remain very tight, and I expect labor costs to continue to drift higher. Finally, energy prices 
appear to be firming. For all of those reasons, I expect the four-quarter moving average of 
inflation to bottom out in the spring and then gradually move up over the remainder of the year, 
which is generally consistent with the Tealbook. To reiterate: Soft inflation readings might be 
more of a concern if I thought labor markets were going to ease significantly. However, I view 
labor markets as quite tight—and if my forecast of real GDP growth above potential growth this 
year is correct, they will likely get a bit tighter. 
Consistent with generally tight labor markets, we are seeing some increases in labor 
disputes. In New England, the Stop & Shop grocery chain, which employs more than 
30,000 workers, went on strike over Easter. Full-time workers at Stop & Shop are reported to 
earn $21.30 an hour. But, interestingly, the dispute was focused on pension and health benefits. 
The strike highlights a potential upside risk that benefits will be more of a focus in labor 
disputes, and that overall compensation increases will be driven by benefits in the face of tight 
labor markets. 
My own forecast differs from that of the Tealbook in this respect. The Tealbook has the 
employment cost index (ECI) moving from 3 percent for 2018 down to 2.7 percent in 2021 
despite the unemployment rate falling to 3½ percent. In contrast, even though I do not have the 
labor markets tightening quite as much, I expect the ECI to continue to gradually move up. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
115 of 248
 
Another factor affecting inflation over time is likely to be firms’ ability to mark up prices 
over unit labor costs. While the detrended nonfarm markup has risen from 2000, it has been 
declining more recently. My staff has produced some evidence that lagged declines in the 
markup are associated with positive changes in inflation in both aggregated and disaggregated 
industry data. This effect arises even after controlling for the unemployment gap and long-run 
inflation expectations, thus suggesting an independent channel for labor costs through the 
markup. The logic is conventional: As labor costs put pressure on markups, firms are more 
likely to raise prices. Thus, if unit labor costs continue to outpace inflation, eating away at 
margins, I would be more confident that recent softness in inflation will be reversed. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Mr. Chair. With the GDP data now in, we see the economy 
expanded at a robust 3.2 percent pace in the first quarter of 2019, which was an upside surprise, 
given the government shutdown and the generally soft data that did arrive in the first part of the 
quarter. But, looking underneath the hood, we learned that the underlying momentum in private 
demand slowed in Q1 and has, in fact, been slowing since last summer. Nominal GDP growth 
advanced just 3.8 percent in Q1 and has also been declining over the past year and is now 
running at a pace a full percentage point slower than last summer. 
So should I be concerned that this slowdown in momentum, which I attribute at least in 
part to the cumulative effects of our policy normalization actions, will continue throughout 2019 
and drag down GDP growth below the 2 percent pace that I projected in the March SEP? Based 
on the analysis in the Tealbook for this meeting—which, by the way, I thought was excellent—
that would not be my baseline. Indeed, given the recent upturn in U.S. data, as tracked by 
April 30–May 1, 2019
116 of 248
 
various price indexes, our patient policy stance, the rebound in financial conditions, a strong 
labor market, and some indications that global growth may pick up later this year, I’m in basic 
agreement with the Tealbook upgrade to our baseline outlook for 2019 relative to the outlook in 
March. I’m in the relatively optimistic camp for trend growth, and I see it at 2.2 percent, so this 
upgraded outlook for 2019 is close to my estimate of the trend rate. 
Now, the upgraded outlook for growth does depend on an expected rebound in 
consumption; solid, if not robust, contribution from investment; a positive contribution from 
fiscal policy; and perhaps also some modest positive contribution from residential investment, 
given the decline in mortgage rates. I broadly agree with this analysis of the baseline trajectory 
in these contributions. If it plays out, then we might see some further decline in the 
unemployment rate. But depending on labor force participation, we might not. I remind you that 
because of a coincident increase in participation in the past 11 months, since May 2018, the 
unemployment rate is unchanged for the past 11 months, notwithstanding 3.2 percent GDP 
growth and strong gains in employment during that time. 
Now, I acknowledge that, ultimately, labor force gains will cease and underlying 
demographic forces may prevail. But prime-age participation still remains below previous 
peaks, and there may still be some room to run this year for this boost to aggregate supply. 
In regard to aggregate supply, with GDP up 3.2 percent in Q1 and aggregate hours 
worked increasing less than 1 percent, productivity growth in Q1, when it’s released, will likely 
show a sharp pickup from the fourth quarter of last year. 
It might be tempting to declare that a scenario with growth near my trend of 2.2 percent 
and an unemployment rate not far below my u* estimate of 4.1 percent would represent a soft 
landing, but I don’t think that would be accurate unless it was also consistent with PCE inflation 
April 30–May 1, 2019
117 of 248
 
rising to 2 percent and staying there. But that’s not a feature of the Tealbook baseline for this 
year, nor is it part of my outlook. In fact, after seeing the Q1 inflation data, I think, if anything, 
there may be some downside risk to my projection of 1.8 percent for core PCE inflation at the 
March round. And if this plays out, then, to me, 2019 in this baseline would look more like a 
soggy than a soft landing. 
Now, I note that 1.8 percent core PCE inflation is equal to the staff’s estimate of 
underlying inflation, and they have correctly, I believe, incorporated this model of underlying 
inflation into their forecast for the next several years. Again, we talk about inflation 
expectations. There are different surveys, but the Michigan survey has been fluctuating in a very 
low range, and, indeed, the most recent print is tied for the lowest ever recorded. The staff 
estimates of expected inflation over the next five years derived from the TIPS curve, after 
adjusting for liquidity and term premium factors, are in the range of 1.8 percent or below. So I 
think these bear watching. 
To conclude, in terms of risks to the outlook, they do, to me, appear to be somewhat more 
balanced than I thought in March. The U.S. data flow has been coming in on the positive side of 
expectations. The same could be said of Chinese data, and, indeed, today Europe surprised on 
the upside for the first time in a while. But global policy uncertainty remains elevated, as we 
heard a moment ago. Financial conditions do fluctuate, and it does make it difficult to extract 
signal from noise. In particular, we should recognize the tailwind due to the decline in bond 
yields that’s occurred, and I think only part of that is due to a repricing of our policy rate path, 
with term premium factors also important. Indeed, the staff baseline now incorporates a rise in 
the term premium into positive territory over the forecast horizon. This suggests to me that when 
we think about economic scenarios, we would be well served to resist the temptation to see the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
118 of 248
 
world in binary terms, with either strong growth and rising inflation or falling growth and falling 
inflation. There’s a third scenario, very plausible—roughly trend growth, with stable inflation 
somewhat below 2 percent. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The economy is in a good place. The tug of war 
between mood and data that has characterized the past several months seems to have concluded. 
Confidence is high, retail sales and employment have rebounded, and GDP growth in the first 
quarter came in well above expectations. While I continue to expect growth to slow toward a 
more sustainable pace this year, overall the economy remains healthy. 
Now, my business contacts are also pretty upbeat about near-term growth and near-term 
prospects. In fact, I have been struck about how little the gyrations over the past several months 
have tempered their hiring and investment plans. As I mentioned before, they did table some 
marginal projects or delay them, but more and more I’m hearing that they’re adapting to this new 
world in which it’s more volatile, and they’re starting to look through monthly ups and downs. 
As one of them put it, they are learning to be data dependent, and it doesn’t mean “data point 
dependent.” So I think this is potentially a shock absorber that we didn’t have, perhaps, in 
December. 
Of course, not everything in the 12th District is rosy. The turmoil at Boeing is taking a 
toll on the Seattle region and Washington State more broadly. Boeing is a key employer in the 
Northwest, with connections across a wide range of industries that support the production of its 
airplanes. And if this continues, it will be felt well outside the District, across a number of 
regions in which the country produces, and that’s been detailed in the Tealbook. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
119 of 248
 
Now, with the real-side economy doing well, in a healthy place, the weak inflation 
readings are again in the spotlight. But they are also, I think, more spotlighted, because you 
would expect, with the economy rebounding, more positive information on inflation. So the 
question is, what do we make of these readings? And along lines similar to what Stacey and 
others have noted, I’ve mentioned before that the gains and losses in inflation we have seen over 
the past several years—two years, really—come from these acyclical components of inflation. If 
you divide inflation into acyclical versus cyclical sectors, you see that most of the movements up 
and down are coming from these acyclical sectors. These are the ones that respond to 
idiosyncratic factors, including regulatory or policy changes or just other things that are 
temporary or more persistent. The point is that, in contrast, the contributions coming from the 
cyclically sensitive sectors have barely budged. They’re the ones that should typically respond 
to slack, but that contribution has been flat for the past couple of years. 
So the real question is, what’s up with cyclical inflation? Why isn’t it moving in the way 
we would project if the unemployment rate is coming down? One explanation of the tepid 
response of cyclical inflation is that the economy has been adding supply as the expansion has 
progressed, which would be a positive supply response. And this is something that Arthur Okun 
thought about back in the 1970s. He hypothesized that a high-pressure economy, like the one 
we’ve been running, would indeed increase employment, especially among less-advantaged 
people, as well as boost labor supply, and thus aggregate supply, in the short run, if not in the 
long run. 
One way this can happen, if you think about it, is detailed in the Tealbook box. It’s when 
firms that are pressed to fill vacancies lower their standards or recruit more intensively, 
essentially make it easier for workers who might not have been qualified in a downturn to be 
April 30–May 1, 2019
120 of 248
 
qualified in an upturn. And if this happens, then that would be a positive labor supply response 
and a positive supply shock. This is consistent with work that we’ve done in San Francisco that 
talks about recruiting intensity. Recruiters focus more on recruiting individuals when the 
economy is hot than they do when the economy is cold. 
Now, to see if the factors of skill movements and recruiting intensity actually make a 
material difference in labor supply, in a recent paper for the Brookings Institution conference, 
written by me and my coauthors, Bill Wascher, David Wilcox, and Stephanie Aaronson—it’s our 
Fed family event—we evaluated whether these factors are actually influencing labor supply. 
And we’ve talked about this before, so I thought I’d spend a moment just going over what we 
found. We specifically evaluated Okun’s hypothesis—that a “hot” economy will bring in new 
workers and boost labor supply, particularly among these less-advantaged groups. In general, we 
find that this has happened, especially among women. Women tend to experience the hot 
economy by getting into the labor force and having an intensive margin increase as well. So 
unemployment rates go down, labor force participation rates go up, and you can even find some 
evidence that hours move. 
In terms of inflation, if you think this is going on, then this would mute inflation 
pressures, because you’re getting this positive supply shock, and that’s something that you can 
see happening in the short run. Now, we didn’t find much evidence, nor have others, that this 
persists in the sense of positive hysteresis, but you really don’t need that if you’re worrying 
about short-term muting of inflation. The positive supply response would be a factor, explaining 
what we see today. 
Another potential factor, and one we’ve also been thinking about quite a lot, is that robots 
could be taking over people’s jobs, and that automation is essentially in there mucking up the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
121 of 248
 
works of the labor market and the relationship between the labor market and inflation. So the 
idea is really a simple one—if workers think that they can be automated away, they’re much less 
likely to ask for a wage increase, because they already recognize that if they bargain too much, 
their jobs will be replaced with robots. 
In recent research at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, some economists 
explored this using an actual model, thinking about a standard macromodel in which firms and 
workers are bargaining over wages—but the innovation is that, in the model, the firms can also 
just move to automation, to a robot. If you think about that model, and you take it to the data—
they use time-series data on labor market variables and productivity—they found that the threat 
of automation in this model actually substantially affects inflation. The interesting thing is, 
that’s on the historical piece. If they look today, it’s not a factor holding down inflation right 
now, largely because, as we have seen, business investment and capital deepening isn’t what it 
was in previous periods. But if you want to forecast forward, even if the positive supply shock 
wears off and we run out of juice there, the threat of automation, as capital deepening occurs, 
could be another factor holding down inflation in the future. 
If you put both of those things together—threat of automation in the future, and the 
positive supply shock we have now—these are both factors that could be holding down inflation 
today and could present downside risk to our future inflation forecast. 
So when I look at all of these things—and I especially focus on the cyclical component of 
inflation—the slow recovery of that piece, or the lack of recovery, has tilted, for me, the inflation 
risk to the downside. It’s not quite worrisome yet, but I think it is confusing enough that it bears 
more thought. And this is a topic I’ll return to tomorrow in our policy discussion. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
122 of 248
 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. There has been little change in my assessment of 
the Fourth District economy since our previous meeting. The Cleveland Fed staff’s diffusion 
index that measures the difference in the percentage of business contacts reporting better versus 
worse conditions held steady in April with a reading of 20. Most contacts expect growth in their 
businesses to be about the same in 2019 as in 2018, although manufacturing and freight industry 
contacts noticed some first-quarter weakness. At least some of that weakness was due to their 
clients having pulled orders forward in an attempt to avoid tariff-related price increases. 
Manufacturers in the District that are domestically focused are faring better than those 
that have relatively high exposure to international markets. Our directors anticipate real GDP 
growth to be between 2 to 2½ percent this year. 
District labor market conditions remain strong. After being 4½ percent for all of last 
year, the unemployment rate edged down to 4.3 percent in March, more than ½ percentage point 
below the Cleveland staff’s estimate of its longer-run normal level. Year-over-year growth in 
payroll employment was ¾ percent in March, a bit slower than earlier this year but still well 
above the Cleveland staff’s estimate of its longer-run trend. 
Firms are dealing in a number of ways with the continued difficulty in finding qualified 
workers. Some business contacts are limiting drug screenings to the extent they can, and more 
are actively recruiting from the population of ex-offenders. Many firms are raising wage rates 
for entry-level workers from around $10 an hour to $15 or more an hour, not quite as high as the 
Stop & Shop in Boston but still a strong increase in wages. Some firms are aggressively 
adjusting compensation for current employees to limit turnover. For example, a general 
contractor in northeast Ohio raised wages by 10 percent for some critical staff in the hope they 
would not explore other opportunities. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
123 of 248
 
Finally, some firms noted that they are increasingly turning to automation as a way to 
address limited labor availability. Although wage pressures persist, nonlabor cost pressures 
continue to ease, especially in manufacturing, where prices of industrial metals, petroleum 
products, and shipping services have fallen. Despite this, a relatively high percentage of contacts 
continue to report increases in their own product prices. 
Regarding the national economy, incoming data over the intermeeting period were 
mixed. It now appears the first-quarter growth was stronger than expected, but this mainly 
reflects a strong contribution from inventory. So it might come at the expense of second-quarter 
growth. 
Business investment has slowed considerably since last year, but earnings are supportive 
of continued growth. Manufacturing activity has also slowed, but survey-based indicators 
remain consistent with continued expansion. And the housing market remains subdued. On the 
other hand, consumer spending appears poised to pick up significantly in the second quarter after 
a slow first quarter, so I continue to expect moderate output growth over the first half of the year 
and growth at or slightly above my trend pace of 2 percent over the next couple of years. 
This slowdown in growth compared with last year reflects the effects of waning fiscal 
stimulus, past reductions in monetary accommodation, and softer global growth. The risks to the 
forecasts are similar to those at the time of our previous meeting. Trade policy and weak growth 
prospects in major foreign economies are downside risks. But, on the positive side, a favorable 
resolution of some of these key uncertainties are an upside risk, as is the significant easing of 
financial conditions compared with earlier this year. 
The labor market continues to be strong. Averaging through the ups and downs in the 
recent data, payroll gains have averaged 180,000 per month over the first three months of the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
124 of 248
 
year. The unemployment rate has been 4 percent or less since March of last year. And the 
broader U-6 measure has moved down over the past year. Labor force participation rates have 
held at an above-trend level. So this strength has led to a pickup in wage growth over the past 
two years, in line with productivity growth and inflation. 
If the economic expansion is to be sustained, it’s likely that job growth will need to 
decelerate from its current strong pace to a pace more in keeping with trend, which most 
estimates put in a range of 75,000 to 120,000 per month. Despite t.his gradual moderation, job 
gains over the next few years should be strong enough to keep the unemployment rate under 
4 percent, well below estimates of its longer-run level, which I put at 4½ percent. 
The inflation readings were disappointing. As expected, recent headline PCE inflation 
has been soft, reflecting the drop in energy prices in the fourth quarter of last year. Oil prices 
have since moved up, so some of this weakness is expected to reverse. More of a concern, core 
PCE inflation has also softened to 1.6 percent in March. Even the market-based measure of core 
PCE inflation, which the Cleveland staff analysis indicates has been a more accurate predictor of 
future headline PCE inflation, softened in March. At this point, it does appear that the softness 
in core inflation may be transitory, reflecting unusual moves in particular components such as 
the payroll and imputed prices of financial services. Supporting this interpretation is that the 
median and trimmed-mean measures of CPI inflation have remained steady for the past couple of 
months. 
Despite the softer readings on inflation, inflation expectations have been broadly stable in 
recent weeks. The five-year, five-year-forward estimate obtained from the Cleveland Fed’s 
model of inflation expectations was essentially unchanged from March to April although a bit 
below readings from 2018. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
125 of 248
 
In view of the health of the economy and the stable inflation expectations, the most likely 
case is that inflation will move back up later this year and run near 2 percent over the remainder 
of the forecast horizon. But I’m somewhat less confident in this forecast, given the recent 
inflation readings. That said, if growth remains at or above trend, labor markets remain tight, 
and inflation expectations remain stable, we might have to accept that inflation could remain 
somewhat below our target for some time. 
Providing more accommodation under these conditions would seem to run counter to the 
balanced approach we describe in our statement on long-run goals and policy strategies, risking 
creating distortions and inefficiency in a labor market that is already well beyond maximum 
sustainable unemployment, risking destabilizing inflation expectations on the upside, and 
potentially encouraging financial instability. 
If to boost inflation on a sustained basis requires boosting inflation expectations, it may 
take more-aggressive action than would be consistent with the balanced approach. Instead, we 
may need to practice opportunistic inflation, just as the Committee practiced opportunistic 
disinflation in the 1990s. Under current economic circumstances, this would mean keeping the 
funds rate at current levels for longer than would otherwise be the case, despite the continued 
strength in labor markets, and allowing inflation to drift back up. Of course, if we end up in a 
situation in which they underrun, and inflation is indicative of deteriorating aggregate demand or 
destabilize inflation expectations, this will be a different story, which might require action. 
Finally, I want to say a word about the Board staff’s revision of the policy rule used in 
the Tealbook to generate the path of the funds rate on which the forecast is conditioned. The 
Tealbook plays an important role in our policy deliberations by helping to coordinate our 
discussion on the outlook and key risks. So, for some time, I have been concerned that the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
126 of 248
 
increasing divergence between the Tealbook’s projected funds rate path and those of the market, 
private-sector forecasts, and FOMC participants could eventually work to undermine the 
Tealbook’s credibility and usefulness to the Committee. I appreciate that the staff has tried to 
address this concern. That said, I do think it’s important that the Tealbook provide an 
independent view and not just mirror the Committee’s views on policy, which could end up 
being wrong. Selecting a rule that fits the SEP just because it fits the SEP would be too self-
referential, providing less useful information to the Committee. 
Also, the staff suggests that they don’t view the new baseline rule as permanent, in that 
it’s specific to the state of the economy. But, if the rule is allowed to change too often, this 
would tend to make it harder to infer policy guideposts and rules that have been shown in 
research to work robustly across models and economic conditions. 
The approach taken in the alternative scenarios this time illustrates this potential problem. 
The scenarios now allow the rule to change, because the staff is predicting the Committee will 
change its behavior based on the economic conditions within the scenario. This prediction may 
be correct, but the variation in rules across scenarios makes it hard to assess the risk captured by 
the alternatives, because both the shocks and policy behavior change across scenarios. Given 
that the alternative scenarios are not constructed to produce normative prescription, I’d prefer to 
see the results of using a consistent rule across the simulations to illustrate the risk. 
Now, while it’s important to have some continuity in the rules we use in our models and 
to inform our thinking, I don’t mean to imply that the rules should never change, but I do think 
we should think through what objective criteria—like changes in underlying economic 
fundamentals or the transmission mechanism—would suggest that a different reaction function 
would yield better economic outcomes. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
127 of 248
 
In a recently published economic commentary, Ed Knotek of the Cleveland staff 
examines the fit of some simple Taylor-type policy rules to FOMC participants’ median SEP 
policy rate path submissions, and he finds that the Committee appears to be putting about half 
the weight on the unemployment gap than it has in the past, with little change in the weight on 
the inflation gap. The change in the rule might reflect some reluctance to put as much weight on 
the unemployment gap, given the uncertainty associated with estimates of u* and the gap. But 
an alternative explanation is that participants have not actually changed the weight on the 
unemployment gap, but instead believe that the labor market is less tight than what is implied by 
an unemployment gap derived using the participants’ estimates of the longer-run unemployment 
rate. 
Further analyses along these lines would be helpful if we want to preserve the ability of 
simple policy rules to provide useful benchmarks against which we can check our own policy 
assumptions. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Sentiment from Sixth District contacts remained 
generally upbeat this cycle. Business leaders expect 2019 to be another solid year for growth, 
and I came away from these conversations with the sense that these folks are comfortable with 
the current environment. In short, what I’m hearing is a lot like what I’d expect to hear at a time 
when resource gaps are closed and inflation is trending fairly close to target. 
This comfort extends even to firms with a heavy amount of international exposure. 
Contacts in this space until recently have been very vocal regarding escalating trade tensions and 
the prospect for additional tariffs. This is the trade policy uncertainty, or TPU, that was 
discussed by Beth Anne and studied by the emerging IF super group, DAAMP. [Laughter] 
April 30–May 1, 2019
128 of 248
 
However, at a Trade and Transportation Advisory Council meeting this cycle, we actually had to 
prompt many of the participants for their thoughts regarding risks to their operations. The lack 
of concern and worry was somewhat surprising, with most members noting no significant effect 
to date on decisionmaking. 
What we did hear was that global risks, while not completely absent, are believed to have 
substantially dissipated, and the prospect of deterioration in conditions is not on their radar. 
Interestingly, they were generally confident that there would be positive resolutions to the 
current skirmishes between the United States and some of its trading partners, and this is akin to 
the dynamic that President Bullard described earlier. But, I should note, my contacts’ 
decisionmaking has not changed, and the tendency toward more muted investment remains. And 
this would suggest that the TPU effect, to the extent that there is one, is likely still holding. 
Now, in preparation for this meeting, I heard more reports of upside risks, especially on 
consumer spending and housing. A regional beverage bottler and distributor noted his sales for 
the year are already above plan even after a very slow start during the winter months. And a 
national housing manufacturer touted that conditions in the housing market appear to have 
improved markedly in March and early April, in part due to the lower trajectory in rates. 
This lack of concern appears to have spilled over into labor markets as well. Despite 
tight labor markets, many businesses appear to be pushing forward with hiring plans. Our 
employers offered all of the usual soundings regarding difficulty finding and retaining talent. In 
addition, as was alluded to by President Daly and Governor Clarida, a few contacts noted diving 
deeper into labor pool to find workers. Predictably, there were a few grumbles among this group 
that their latest hires were less than ideal, but it is difficult at this point to disentangle whether 
these murmurs were a sign that we’ve significantly pushed beyond the full-employment 
April 30–May 1, 2019
129 of 248
 
boundary, considering that many of these firms were undeterred in their expectation that they 
will continue to be able to add to payrolls. And they did ultimately make the hires. While wage 
growth measures have moved up some, I have not been able to detect any battle royal over talent 
that would result in an upward wage price spiral. 
Regarding prices, much of the recent softness in the incoming indicators appears to be a 
symptom of a relatively noisy price change distribution, and, at this point, I’m placing a bit more 
faith in the signal provided by trimmed-mean measures of underlying inflation that suggest that 
inflation remains at or just a bit below our price objective. 
In my view, the risks to the inflation outlook remain balanced. I am a bit skeptical of the 
notion that underlying inflation has softened materially since the end of last year, and while I 
admit that inflation hasn’t exactly taken flight in the face of what appears to be relatively tight 
labor market conditions, I am not yet ready to concede that the link between the two is 
completely dead. 
The current state of the Phillips curve is reminiscent of a famous Monty Python skit 
about a dead parrot, and at this point, notwithstanding President Daly’s research and analyses, 
I’m still siding with the shopkeeper. And, yes, I do know how this scene actually plays out. 
[Laughter] I would not be surprised if yelling into the air at the Norwegian Blue—in our case, 
further tightening in labor market conditions—serves to startle Polly awake. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. I really need to follow that? [Laughter] All right. Well, thank you, Mr. 
Chair. So, regarding the forecast, I’m in general agreement with the staff’s near-term forecast of 
economic activity, although I continue to be concerned, like others, that the softness of inflation 
April 30–May 1, 2019
130 of 248
 
may be more long lived than is anticipated in the staff projection. Inflation has been stubbornly 
below target for quite some time, and projections that it will return to target or slightly exceed 
target have likewise been incorrect for an extended period of time. And I, like President Daly, 
have inflation risks totally to the downside. 
The Tealbook outlook is also consistent with the anecdotal reports of various Third 
District contacts indicating that activity has picked up modestly in recent weeks. Comments 
suggest that the economy will achieve modest growth this year, and people seem a bit less 
concerned than they were just even a couple of months ago. After experiencing a bit of a wobble 
at the start of the year, economic activity in the Third District has shown a slight pickup. 
Employment growth in the District is at trend, and labor markets appear to be healthy in most 
MSAs. As well, employment gains are broad based across various industries, and the 
unemployment rate was 4 percent in March. All 18 MSAs in the District have unemployment 
rates that are at decadal lows. Also, the labor force participation rate in the District has picked 
up, and the March reading on initial claims was the lowest since 1990. So, all in all, the labor 
markets are good in the Third District. 
Currently, though, there is a divergence between manufacturing and nonmanufacturing in 
the District. Although our manufacturing survey experienced a moderate bounceback in April, it 
is currently above its nonrecessionary average. The index is noticeably lower than it was last 
year, and expectations have moderated as well. Regarding activity outside of manufacturing, our 
nonmanufacturing sector is posting strong overall growth, and both new orders and sales were 
elevated in April. Respondents remain fairly optimistic about growth over the next six months. 
One area of notable and noticeable weakness in the District, unlike Atlanta, is residential 
investment. Permits remain flat, and the value of residential contracts have been falling. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
131 of 248
 
Additionally, architectural firms are reporting less business, which I think is a real harbinger of 
what we’re seeing across the District. 
My staff has looked at, I think, an important area for us. The staff has recently analyzed 
the heterogeneity in regional income growth. Over the period from 1980 to 2015, real incomes 
of those below the 90th percentile have generally been flat, while incomes of those in the 90th to 
95th percentile have risen modestly. For Philadelphia, the ratio of income of a household at the 
80th percentile to one that is at the 20th percentile has increased from 4.5 in 2000 to 5.8 in 2017, 
which is in line with, for example, what Boston has experienced, but below that found in New 
York. So the region is experiencing a noticeable increase in income inequality, and we will have 
more to say about that in the coming meetings as we dig deeper into this issue. 
Shifting gears for one minute, I wanted to give one anecdote on the international front 
that I thought was just interesting. It’s from a contact who produces auto parts in Shenzhen, out 
of the Shenzhen area of China. The Chinese government plans to make Shenzhen the next 
Silicon Valley. I mean, that is their plan. This contact was informed that his firm needed to 
vacate the factory they had in that area by 2022 despite having a lease that ran through 2027. So, 
of course, they started the planning process of getting out of there by then. Recently, the Chinese 
government came back and asked him to remain till 2027, which is a sign that this grand plan of 
becoming the next Silicon Valley of the world is not happening as they anticipated. So I think 
it’s just one interesting sign of what we’re seeing on the ground in China today. 
So, to summarize: The economy in the Third District and nationally seems to have 
stabilized, with recent data mitigating any concerns I have of a sustained slowdown. However, 
the softening in price pressures does represent a concern, and the lack of any inflationary 
April 30–May 1, 2019
132 of 248
 
pressure will continue to be a focus of mine and inform my policy positions over this and 
subsequent meetings. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Economic activity has evolved a bit stronger than 
I predicted at our previous meeting. I certainly wasn’t expecting 3.2 percent GDP growth in the 
first quarter. Real GDP seems likely to grow faster than trend, and the labor market remains 
healthy. It helps me to circle back to the fourth quarter and recognize that, above and beyond the 
hard data, we had what I think of as a sentiment shock. There’s a significant drop in business, 
consumer, and investor confidence driven by and overreacting to international weakness, trade 
concerns, fragile markets, and the looming government shutdown. 
The Michigan Index of Consumer Expectations fell over 10 points from September to 
January. The Conference Board’s CEO survey fell 13 points in the fourth quarter. The stock 
market fell 20 percent from October 3 to Christmas Eve. The ISM New Orders index fell 
10 points in December. In our Fifth District, new orders index for manufacturing fell 45 points 
from September to January. 
Sentiment drops like this can affect the real economy and may well have played an 
important role in the drop we saw in retail sales and business investment early in the year. 
Weather surely contributed as well. But by mid-February, things had settled. The government 
shutdown ended. The stock market rebounded. Trade uncertainties seemed less pressing. China 
started to recover. Brexit was delayed. Perhaps we were relevant, too. The sentiment measures 
began to improve. At our previous meeting, like many of you, I predicted that the weakness 
would prove transitory, and it is encouraging to see signs of a rebound. Employment, auto sales, 
April 30–May 1, 2019
133 of 248
 
and retail sales were all strong in March. New claims for unemployment insurance hit a 50-year 
low. 
Now, in assessing the outlook, I distinguish between consumer and business sentiment. 
Consumer confidence is anchored by a strong labor market, good income prospects, healthy 
credit markets, and high savings. Once the environment settled, they were ready and able to 
resume spending in March. And I expect, like many of you, solid consumer spending to 
continue for the rest of this year. 
Based on my conversations with business contacts, however, I think their recovery will 
be slower. Many firms have high leverage. Executives have elevated risk assessments persisting 
from the Great Recession, and there are increasing doubts arising from the length and weakness 
of this expansion. While these executives tell me they’ve not cut back on hiring or investment, 
they have now had risks crystallize, and they say we won’t see them doubling down. There are 
still ample reasons for uncertainty, including trade, the debt ceiling, and continued political 
turmoil. Executives see the upside as limited, and they are cautious. Consequently, I expect 
business investment to slow relative to last year. This is also in the Tealbook forecast. 
Finally, I believe that sentiment also played a role in the unexpected weakness of 
inflation in the first quarter. Many businesses set price increases to start at the beginning of the 
year. First-quarter pricing is often an opening bid on efforts to take prices higher. Over time, 
market reaction determines what can be sustained. But the sentiment shock in the fourth quarter 
likely led businesses to have less courage and led purchasing departments to push back harder. 
Perhaps, as a result, we had less inflation in the first quarter than would have occurred without 
the sentiment shock. Because of the annual nature of this price listing, the effect of this shock 
may well last several quarters. Thank you. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
134 of 248
 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We’ve had disappointing news on inflation. All 
the incoming data on domestic economic activity has improved since last round. Meanwhile, the 
reports from my directors and other contacts didn’t change very much. My contacts did 
experience some softer activity early in the year, but they remained fairly sanguine about solid 
underlying trends in domestic demand and continued labor market strength. So they also weren’t 
terribly excited about the pickup we’ve seen in recent national data, and some had already seen 
easing price pressures. To them, it’s all been pretty much more of the same. 
Commentary about international growth did improve this round, although the standards 
for improvement are quite low. For example, a large temporary help firm saw a glimmer of hope 
in Europe because the trends there seem to be stabilizing. Growth was slow, but at least not 
getting slower. A large U.S. automaker also indicated that its business in Europe was looking a 
little better, and, of course, the news from China points to more government stimulus and higher 
growth at least for the near term. Some contacts also are expecting positive news about a trade 
deal between the United States and China. I suspect, however, that they would be satisfied with 
just a cessation of hostilities and don’t expect any breakthroughs on major long-standing 
structural issues. 
In financial markets, our contacts say investor demand is strong across asset classes, and 
banks in the District report ongoing competitive pressure on rates and terms in CRE and C&I. 
This is a good environment for borrowers. For example, one large nonfinancial firm rated their 
borrowing conditions as a 4 on a scale of 5. 
Regarding wages and prices, although reports of labor shortages continue unabated, we 
didn’t hear much about stronger wage growth. That said, one major temporary help agency did 
April 30–May 1, 2019
135 of 248
 
see some acceleration, with year-over-year increases in production worker wages moving from 
3.4 percent in Q4 to 3.7 percent in the first quarter. 
There was little commentary about inflation, but the news I did hear did not suggest 
rising inflation pressures. A couple of large manufacturers mentioned that commodity prices had 
stabilized or turned down some, with one noting he saw no reason to raise his product prices any 
more this year beyond the modest increases that were already in place. 
For the national outlook, the incoming monthly data suggest that the first-quarter 
weakness in private domestic final demand likely will turn out to be a minor pothole. Downside 
risks remain, but they appear to have abated a good deal. We boosted our forecast of real GDP 
growth in 2019 to 2¼ percent. Our outlook for 2020 and 2021 is mostly unchanged. We are 
projecting a moderate slowdown in growth beginning next year, largely reflecting the declining 
impulse from fiscal policy. We see the unemployment rate averaging 3¾ percent over the 
projection period, and our long-run neutral rate is 4.3 percent. 
The news on inflation has not been good. The recent data on core inflation have softened 
considerably. Perhaps there are special temporary factors operating. However, I am highly 
sympathetic to the Tealbook’s revised views about underlying inflation. I remain quite 
concerned that inflation expectations could stay stubbornly low relative to our objective. 
To combat this, I think we need a flat policy rate path and strong communications of our 
commitment to a symmetric 2 percent inflation target. This combination should gradually lift 
inflation expectations over the course of the projection period. In this setting, we project the core 
PCE inflation will move up and reach 2 percent by 2021 and modestly overshoot target after that. 
I think I’ve been forecasting that for quite some time. If, instead, I took onboard the Tealbook’s 
April 30–May 1, 2019
136 of 248
 
revised view that underlying inflation will remain stuck at 1.8 percent through 2021, then I 
would be writing down a below-target forecast. 
In sum, while I am feeling better than I did earlier in the year about the outlook for 
growth, I am more nervous about the inflation outlook. My baseline assumption continues to be 
that we can generate a mandate-consistent path of inflation with a flat policy rate path and strong 
communications about symmetry. Time will tell if that is enough. With an unemployment rate 
of 3.8 percent, one would think delivering on our inflation mandate should be easy, like falling 
off a log, but instead, it’s proving to be pretty difficult. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have just a few remarks on the economy. I 
thought I’d start with remarks on the new Tealbook policy rule, which is closer to the 
modernized Taylor rule that I discussed at this table and in public presentations. Generally 
speaking, I have felt that the Taylor (1999) rule isinteresting from the 1990s perspective but that 
too much has changed since that time—and in the use of the rule, too much is taken as constant 
since the 1990s, which is no longer constant. So generally I applaud the change, which I feel is 
long overdue. I think this sets up a better baseline for the Committee from which to have a 
policy discussion. 
Moving the output gap coefficient in the policy rule from alpha equals 1.0 to alpha equals 
0.2 is a reduction by a factor of 5. My eyeballing of the rolling regressions that inform this kind 
of reduction was to reduce it by a factor of 10, but 5 is close enough. So 0.1 or 0.2 probably 
doesn’t make too much difference. 
The most important thing is that we’re recognizing the empirical evidence on the lack of 
feedback from real activity to inflation in the past two decades. It brings the Tealbook baseline 
April 30–May 1, 2019
137 of 248
 
closer to private-sector assessments of the current state of the economy, which I think is also 
important. 
The new rule calls for a mostly flat path of the federal funds rate. I see this as appropriate 
at this juncture. I would not have a projected increase in 2020. I would just leave it flat. But 
other than that, it’s very close to my own policy outlook. 
There are possible other adjustments that we want to make to modernize the Taylor 
(1999) rule, one of which we have already partially made and the other that we haven’t. The one 
we haven’t made is to use inflation expectations instead of actual inflation in the Taylor-type 
rule. We could use some measure of market-based expectations as a deviation from the inflation 
target over the forecast horizon. That would give you some forward-looking element to the rule. 
This has been discussed in the literature, certainly since the 1990s. When Taylor was originally 
writing, there were no TIPS market data, so that did not get established in the United States until 
the late 1990s. I do see current inflation expectations, like many around the table, as somewhat 
lower than desired. 
The other adjustment that we could make is on r*, which has been heavily discussed 
around the table. We have lowered our r* baseline, I think, as a group and within the Tealbook. 
I think you could take r* even lower based on global considerations and model-free assessments 
of trends in global short-term interest rates. If you just look at the data, it looks very low 
globally. It doesn’t look like it’s moving up nor is there any notion of trend, or of mean 
reversion. So, I think, for the time being, r* is going to be even lower than what we are thinking 
it is over the forecast horizon. 
So these additional considerations would suggest that the current policy setting is actually 
mildly restrictive. But despite this moderately restrictive stance, I remain hopeful for a soft 
April 30–May 1, 2019
138 of 248
 
landing, akin to the one achieved by this Committee in the mid-1990s following the 300 basis 
point normalization in 1994 and 1995. 
On the real economy, Eighth District anecdotal information remains focused on steady 
growth. I think many of you know that agriculture is a weaker sector in part because of trade 
war effects and also because of very wet conditions across our District, delaying planting and 
causing other types of problems. Labor markets continue to improve. We do hear a lot of stories 
of inventiveness by firms in hiring workers, consistent with remarks by Presidents Daly, Mester, 
and Bostic. 
Nationally, GDP surprising to the upside in Q1 does change our narrative to some degree. 
The Fed nowcasts on the eve of the release of the first-quarter initial estimate were 2.1 percent 
and came in at 3.2 percent. That’s a pretty big upside surprise. Previously, our narrative—or my 
narrative, anyway—was that Q1 would be a weak quarter, but don’t worry, the remainder of the 
year would be stronger in the context of the situation in which it’s well understood that 2019 
would be a slower-growth year than 2018. 
The new narrative is that Q1 came in stronger than expected, and year-over-year GDP 
growth is still above 3 percent. It’s possible now that 2019 growth will be somewhat faster than 
currently expected, and we’ll continue to have an upside surprise as we go forward. However, I 
do not think that the new narrative will have an effect on my projected rate path because the 
feedback from growth to inflation is quite weak, which is reflected in the lower coefficient in this 
new Tealbook Taylor-type rule. 
Recent inflation readings are low, as many have mentioned around the table. Core PCE 
year-over-year—only 1.6 percent. Inflation expectations are still soft, in my view, as Governor 
Clarida has emphasized. This is mildly concerning to me. I think it could be used to justify a 
April 30–May 1, 2019
139 of 248
 
rate cut or plan for a rate cut. One question I would have put to the Committee is, we’ve had 
two years of upside surprise to the economy, outperformance in labor markets, and 
outperformance on real GDP growth, and we still aren’t up to our inflation target. Not only that, 
but we’re going in the wrong direction. I think the idea of opportunistic inflation is an intriguing 
phrase put forward by President Mester. 
I think a rate cut would still be premature at this point but should be something we 
prepare for. One counter, which I think is an important one, is that the Dallas Fed trimmed mean 
is still 2 percent, and I do think it has generally done a better job in measuring underlying 
inflation for the United States. But if it were up to me, I’d put more weight on inflation 
expectations and less weight on the core year-over-year reading. 
My last comment is that the framework discussion that’s ongoing and, I guess, is about to 
heat up in the lead-up to the Chicago conference in June has increased speculation about price-
level targeting and its many variants. That could influence inflation expectations and could be 
mildly “dovish” for the near term. Longer term, however, it would depend on what we actually 
do with respect to that issue. So thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everything we are seeing in the 11th District 
is consistent with solid growth, although at a somewhat slower pace than last year. We currently 
expect Texas job growth of between 1½ and 2 percent during 2019. That compares with 
2.3 percent growth last year. But I would say, our manufacturing- and service-sector surveys and 
our discussion with contacts suggest business seems to be stabilizing after weakness in the fourth 
quarter of 2018. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
140 of 248
 
As with others, wage pressures remain elevated, and there have been continued reports of 
widespread labor shortages. Although, I would note, wage pressures are particularly evident at 
the low end of the wage scale where—based on discussion with our contacts—wages are $12 to 
$15 per hour, and for skilled workers. 
One potentially underreported situation, from a commercial point of view, is the situation 
down at the southern border. U.S. border conditions have emerged as a source of business 
uncertainty in our District. As has been widely reported, we’ve got a surge—and this is a real 
surge—of immigrants and migrants coming from Central America. Not from Mexico, but from 
Central America. And I just visited El Paso last week and met with the mayor, with customs and 
law enforcement leadership, and with business leaders. What they told us is, they have now 
diverted personnel away from major commercial crossing points, literally shut lanes at a very 
critical port. Contacts that we talked to report 12- to 18-hour wait times for their trucks versus 
4 to 5 hours, and there are reports of much longer delays. At just the port of El Paso, 
3,000 trucks per day was typical up until a few weeks ago. It is now down to 1,500 trucks a day. 
We’re getting widespread calls—in our District, at least—about the implications of this. 
And what we’re hearing is, this situation is putting logistic and integrated supply chain systems 
of manufacturers under severe strain, particularly probably in the Southwest United States and in 
the Midwest United States. We may not be hearing about it yet, but I’ll just describe the 
dynamic. U.S. manufacturing facilities depend on these supply chains and typically use just-in-
time inventory methods. That means they operate with not a lot of slack. So if this type of 
border situation persists—it’s going on in El Paso, it’s going on in McAllen, and all across at 
least the border of Texas—ultimately, these plants will run out of final goods inventory. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
141 of 248
 
We’re going to continue to monitor this very carefully. It sounds like, just around the 
table, your manufacturing contacts are not yet hearing about it, but our folks that handle logistics 
along the border suggest that, if this goes on, we will be hearing about it more from 
manufacturing contacts not just, again, in the Southwest, but probably also in the Midwest. 
Let me just comment on oil. As some of you mentioned, oil prices have increased 
materially since January. Our own view at the Dallas Fed is that the bulk of that increase, at 
least up until the third week in April, was due to greater confidence in global demand—that is, 
less concern that we were going to head into a global downturn, along with some of the effect 
from sustained OPEC production cuts, as well as geopolitical uncertainties in Venezuela, Libya, 
and, of course, Iran. 
Then, on April 21, the United States announced that we would no longer grant waivers on 
Iranian oil exports. Our estimate, based on discussion with our contacts, is, this should affect 
about a million barrels of oil per day. The reason we didn’t see a greater market reaction—it’s 
our sense that OPEC, led by Saudi Arabia, has already agreed to reverse some of their production 
cuts, as much as 800,000 barrels per day, to offset the bulk of this loss. And so, apparently, 
Saudi Arabia—we’re at the point now where the United States, by the end of this year, produces 
about 13 million barrels of crude a day. Russia produces a little over 11 million. Saudi Arabia 
produces about 10 million, but it’s our judgment they’ve got about 2 million in reserve. So they 
can flex and increase production to buffer some of these geopolitical issues. 
The issue is, this year, we still expect global consumption to grow about 1.5 million 
barrels a day. The United States is going to grow production by about a million barrels a day. 
And, by the way, last year the United States grew production at 1.9 million barrels a day. And 
you may ask, what’s the reason for less production this year? And what we hear all throughout 
April 30–May 1, 2019
142 of 248
 
our District is—just a reminder—in shale, the first-year decline curve is 70 percent. And so if 
you want to just keep production level, you’ve got to drill dramatically more to grow production 
at a million barrels a day. In this case, going from 12 million to 13 million barrels is a pretty 
Herculean task, and they are struggling to keep up. That tells us that the dynamic we’re in now 
is, the United States will continue to grow production, but not as fast as global demand growth. 
Saudi Arabia and OPEC will play the role of price stabilizer, in that they’ve got some excess 
reserves to do that, but at elevated price levels. 
The other thing we’re hearing widely from exploration and production (E&P) companies 
is, they are under substantial investor and shareholder pressure to improve operating efficiencies 
because E&P stocks have performed so poorly. And so these companies are investing a lot more 
in efficiencies, but what we expect predominantly to happen—and you’re already seeing it—is, 
because these techniques are so expensive, you’re going to see more scale. And in this industry, 
you’re either a buyer or a seller, and we’re going to expect to see a lot more consolidation. But I 
think for gas prices in the years ahead, you know, eventually we’re going to get to the point at 
which OPEC cannot continue to increase—they’re out of excess capacity, and we don’t think 
shale is going to keep up globally. We’ve been saying this for a while. It’s likely to keep some 
elevated pressure on oil prices. 
Last couple of comments. We continue to see improvement in stabilization of the U.S. 
economy. Our own Dallas Fed economists now forecast that growth will be approximately 
2¼ percent this year, close to the Tealbook. We would note that our business contacts, while 
they are more confident about the outlook, continue to be concerned about margin pressure, cost 
increases, input increases, and lack of pricing power. We think this is very consistent with S&P 
earnings growth. While better than expected—just a reminder, S&P earnings growth is going to 
April 30–May 1, 2019
143 of 248
 
be flat, 2019 over 2018. What are companies doing about it? Substantial share repurchases, and 
earnings are going to be down even with massive share repurchases. You should expect to see 
more debt-financed merger activity, efforts to create scale, and investment in technology. The 
issue of corporate debt we’ve been talking about today is likely to get worse, because using low-
cost debt is one way you can grow earnings per share. The one hope that we have in talking 
about this at the Dallas Fed—and Randy and I were talking about it—is, I’m hoping that a 
number of these companies who are heavily in bank debt will take the opportunity, with a good 
high-yield debt market, to term out and buy themselves some operating flexibility. And I think 
we, here at the Federal Reserve, jawboning this debt issue, may help encourage those who have a 
chance to term out to term out. I think that would be a healthy response to what we’re seeing. 
Last comment is on inflation. After holding steady at about 2 percent over the past six 
months of 2018, the 12-month Dallas trimmed mean PCE inflation rate, as President Bullard 
mentioned, dipped to 1.9 percent in January, but it’s been holding around 1.9 to 2 percent for the 
first three months of 2019. It’s our view at the Dallas Fed that the trimmed mean will firm 
during the remainder of this year, and it will end this year at or above 2 percent. We go through 
a monthly analysis of the factors that get cut out of the trimmed mean, and it’s our judgment, just 
looking at this, that they appear to be transitory. I guess time will tell. We do prefer the Dallas 
trimmed mean because it cuts out the most extreme upward and downward moves, and we think 
this measure is a more reliable indicator than the ex-food and energy core PCE measure. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The outlook for the 10th District economy 
remains positive. Our most recent surveys of District manufacturers and service providers show 
April 30–May 1, 2019
144 of 248
 
that activity continues to expand, but at a slower pace. Contacts report weather disruptions, 
continued trade uncertainty, and labor shortages as factors weighing on growth. 
Recent flooding in the District was largely concentrated in the State of Nebraska. 
Preliminary estimates from state agencies put the cost of damages at around $1.3 billion, slightly 
over 1 percent of state GDP. Most of this damage is expected to affect the agricultural sector, 
with potential for additional flooding this spring. This will add more stress to farm finances, 
especially in areas where infrastructure, cropland, and stored commodities have been damaged. 
District energy activity is largely holding steady despite drilling activity easing a bit. 
However, the recent rebound in oil markets pushed the price of oil above the average profitable 
price reported in our energy survey. As we look ahead, higher prices and reports of easing of 
pipeline constraints should support increases in activity in the near term. 
For the national economy, my outlook is largely unchanged since our March meeting. I 
continue to expect growth will slow to trend over the forecast horizon, with subdued inflation. 
Incoming data on consumer spending has improved. Both light vehicle sales and retail sales 
rebounded strongly in March, suggesting that the weakness we saw in earlier months was likely 
temporary. In general, consumer spending should continue to be supported by strong 
employment growth and rising wage growth. The recent strong buildup in inventories has added 
to near-term growth. Inventories rose strongly in the second half of last year, adding 
0.4 percentage point to real GDP growth in 2018. Recent data show that this inventory 
accumulation continued in the first quarter. Given that inventories are quite volatile and timing 
of inventory unwinding is typically hard to predict, I’ll be closely watching the current elevated 
inventory-to-sales ratio. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
145 of 248
 
Regarding the labor market, the rebound in March payroll growth following the 
unexpected slowdown in February offers some reassurance that the labor market remains 
healthy. Smoothing through the volatility in recent months, I still anticipate some moderation in 
payroll growth from the strong growth of the economy experienced in 2018. In particular, the 
payrolls deceleration has been strongest in the case of the goods sector, whose employment 
growth has stepped down from an average of 53,000 per month in 2018 to 21,000 per month in 
the first quarter of 2019. Factors contributing to this deceleration likely include the waning of 
fiscal stimulus and the removal of monetary policy accommodation last year. Monetary 
accommodation historically has had a stronger effect on employment in interest-sensitive goods-
producing industries than service-providing industries. 
Employment growth in service industries experienced a more gradual moderation, from 
163,000 per month last year to 148,000 in the first quarter. I expect employment growth to 
continue to slow over the next two years toward a rate more consistent with the net rate of entry 
into the labor force as overall economic growth decelerates toward its trend level. 
Regarding inflation, recent readings suggest that 12-month core PCE inflation will likely 
remain below 2 percent throughout this year. Part of this weakness in the first quarter reflects 
softness in nonmarket components, such as PCE, health care, and financial services prices, which 
I expect to be temporary. In particular, health-care services inflation appears to be a bit out of 
line with fundamentals of wage growth in that sector and administered price increases for 
Medicare and Medicaid. Because of the methodological differences for these services and the 
core CPI and core PCE, this weakness in these nonmarket prices has caused a larger-than-usual 
divergence between core CPI and core PCE inflation, which obscures some of the signals about 
the underlying price pressures in the economy. I’ll be monitoring inflation developments to 
April 30–May 1, 2019
146 of 248
 
determine whether this recent weakness is, indeed, idiosyncratic and temporary in nature or 
whether it represents a more fundamental change in the inflation outlook. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Really? 
CHAIR POWELL. Sorry. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. On Friday we learned that GDP growth in the 
first quarter was a strong 3.2 percent, comparable with the 3 percent pace recorded over 2018 as 
a whole. This was a better reading than many had expected. But, underneath the headline GDP 
number, the data on aggregate demand illustrated tentative signs of slowing growth. In 
particular, there was a step-down in growth in the categories of consumer spending and business 
investment. Consumption growth dropped to 1.2 percent in the first quarter after registering a 
2½ percent pace in the fourth quarter of last year. I would note, however, that there were some 
temporary factors that can probably account for some of the slower domestic spending growth in 
the first quarter. Among those, I would include the government shutdown, slower-than-usual tax 
refund payments, and possibly some lingering caution after the financial market turbulence at the 
end of the last year. But, with household income still rising at a healthy pace and consumer 
sentiment improved, I remain confident that consumer-spending growth will strengthen again as 
we go forward. 
The first-quarter data and various indicators suggest that activity in the business sector is 
also easing from last year’s strong growth. Data show a softening in new orders for capital 
goods, and readings on business sentiment are below last year’s higher levels. Information on 
expected earnings for capital goods producers that Board staff members use to forecast activity 
in the business sector tell a similar story of more moderate gains in business investment this year. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
147 of 248
 
In agriculture, I would note that many producers seem optimistic despite the fact that 
conditions in the sector remain challenging. And, as President George mentioned, recent severe 
flooding in the Midwest has increased pressure in that region. The flooding resulted in 
significant losses of crops and livestock in Nebraska, Iowa, and Minnesota, and, although it’s 
still too soon to fully assess the impact on national agricultural production, one early estimate put 
the value of losses in Nebraska alone at at least $1 billion. Of note, in addition to crop and 
livestock losses, stored grain in flooded areas was also destroyed, much of which was stored in 
anticipation of commodity market price increases. Although the upward pressure these supply 
losses will put on domestic food prices will likely be modest, given the elevated inventories of 
corn and soybeans, I remain concerned that some farmers may be poorly positioned to withstand 
additional financial pressures. 
Though there are some similarities between the current agricultural conditions and those 
that preceded the farm crisis in the 1980s, there are several key differences of note. Today’s 
interest rate environment is substantially lower, and overall leverage is much less pronounced. 
Further, land values have declined only modestly in recent years. This combination of relatively 
low interest rates, increasing but modest debt levels, and strong collateral have resulted in more 
manageable debt service requirements for many borrowers. Most producers have continued to 
make loan payments despite the depressed commodity prices, and farm-sector bankruptcies, 
although slightly increasing, have remained well below the levels observed in the 1980s. Even 
so, developments in the agricultural sector bear continued close monitoring. 
Regarding the broader economy, there have been several positive developments since our 
previous meeting. First, we’ve seen marked improvements in financial conditions since the end 
of last year, and financial markets appear to have bounced back. Residential mortgage rates are 
April 30–May 1, 2019
148 of 248
 
now at the lowest levels in more than a year, and there are signs that the housing market is 
stabilizing after declining in 2018. Consumer confidence has strengthened once again after 
softening earlier this year. 
Despite elevated debt levels in the business sector, borrowing conditions for businesses 
and households remain generally favorable, and, of course, the labor market continues to perform 
extremely well. Job gains have continued to be strong, with the unemployment rate very low, 
and measures of unfilled job openings are at high levels. I am encouraged by the improvement 
in labor force participation over the past year relative to its long-term downward trend. It 
appears that rising wages and a strong likelihood of finding employment may be encouraging 
more job seekers into the labor market than in previous years. I would note that I do have an 
ongoing concern that the current strength of the national labor market is masking the struggles 
that many lower-income families face, especially those in rural communities. 
On the price-stability side of our mandate, the lower readings on PCE price inflation in 
recent months give me some pause. Despite the strong economy, we are still seeing inflation dip 
below our 2 percent target, and the recent readings are softer than I would hope to see. Trade 
tensions and global economic conditions also continue to be an area that warrant monitoring, 
particularly the unresolved trade negotiations and the continued effects of tariffs on particular 
industries, particularly agriculture. 
Notwithstanding these risks, I remain optimistic that our domestic economy will continue 
to perform well in 2019, and that the expected transition to a more moderate pace of economic 
growth is proceeding more or less smoothly. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
149 of 248
 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Chairman. Just a few remarks on the economy. I have 
been a consistent—some would say even annoyingly consistent—optimist in my economic 
outlook since joining the Committee. Given that position, a lesser man might have been tempted 
to dwell excessively [laughter] on last week’s GDP number. But I am not that man. And as it 
has been pointed out, the strength of the headline number does hide some unappealing details. 
In particular, I was disappointed by the weakness of investment. With spending on 
equipment about flat in the quarter—that’s the worst showing in over two years—and given the 
importance for at least my hypothesis of investment and the effect on productivity and the 
productivity story for supporting that optimism, that’s obviously a significant concern. 
Relatedly, PCE was held down by the sharpest decline in spending on durables since 
immediately after the crisis. Altogether, these are some worrying signs perhaps that consumers 
and businesses are becoming a bit more cautious in their spending. I expect the consumption 
will pick back up, supported by a labor market that’s continuing to draw workers back in the 
labor force, accelerating wage gains. I expect investment to firm up, supported by favorable 
business and financial conditions. But if the weakness in investment were to persist further into 
the year, even I might be led to reassess the strength of my longer-term outlook. 
The recent data on inflation have also been anemic—core PCE inflation in the 12 months 
to March running at only 1.6 percent. I understand that some idiosyncratic features, including a 
change in the methodology for measuring apparel prices—apparently, this year’s equivalent to 
cell phone pricing—may have contributed to the weakness. Nonetheless, the data suggest that 
inflation pressures remain muted, even against the backdrop of increased tariffs and tight labor 
markets. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
150 of 248
 
I characterize the tone of the discussion at the IMF and World Bank meetings earlier this 
month as cautious but not particularly distressed. I think there’s a sense that the soft patch in 
global real GDP growth observed through late last year and early this year may be coming to an 
end. Certainly, at least financial markets seem to have regained their confidence. It’s notable 
how strong of a reaction the market has had to the recent encouraging signs in Chinese activity. 
One interpretation might be that recent market volatility has—at least, in part—been driven by 
the market’s changing assessment of the commitment of Chinese authorities to deleveraging 
relative to maintaining strong growth. At the end of last year, there could have been some 
concern that deleveraging would be prioritized at the expense of growth. And, more recently, 
moves by the authorities to relax credit conditions, along with the first-quarter GDP above 
7 percent, has probably lessened those concerns. But this is a balancing act that’s not going 
away, and the likelihood of continued shifts by the Chinese authorities between prioritizing 
deleveraging and growth could continue to move financial markets. 
Finally, I welcome the change in the staff’s policy rule and the new, perhaps more 
realistic, forecast of the policy rate path. Certainly, by closing the gap between the SEP rate path 
and the staff path, the new rule will allow us to focus on other fundamental differences between 
the FOMC’s and the staff’s outlooks without the distraction of the widely divergent rate path. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Well, first, I just want to thank the staff for all 
of the new data series that they are putting on the table. I thought the use of the New York Fed’s 
survey data to rank and show changes in rankings of risks is a very useful addition. I think that 
will be great to track over time. I thought the trade policy uncertainty index, developed by our IF 
April 30–May 1, 2019
151 of 248
 
super team, is also going to pay dividends over time, and I also wanted to commend the staff for 
developing the distributional financial accounts by combining the Survey of Consumer Finances 
with the flow of funds data. I think this is going to provide a really rich ability to track how 
different groups are doing, in terms of their net assets over the cycle at a much higher frequency 
than we can do currently. And we saw a glimpse of that today, with the racial and ethnic groups. 
Regarding the outlook, with one important exception, recently developments in the 
United States and abroad suggest a brighter modal path for our economy and a decline in 
downside risks. Moreover, financial conditions have rebounded, returning to the relatively 
accommodative conditions we saw before the fourth-quarter selloff. While these developments 
suggest some upside risk, the most recent readings on core PCE inflation are on the soft side. 
And although some measures suggest the softening may be transitory, I will be watching the full 
constellation of inflation data very carefully, given that underlying inflation has been running 
somewhat below target for some time. Let me talk about each in turn. 
When we met in March, several pieces of data were concerning. By contrast, between 
the labor market report earlier in the month, last Friday’s GDP report, yesterday’s reassuring 
“print” on PCE, and today’s upbeat confidence reading, those concerns have been largely laid to 
rest. The expansion looks likely to continue to be underpinned by confident consumers, robust 
hiring, and supportive financial conditions. 
The BEA on Friday reported that real GDP increased at a 3¼ percent annual rate in the 
first quarter, well above what many forecasters were expecting. Although some components that 
were strong in the first quarter are likely to weaken in the second quarter, nonetheless, 
consumption growth looks likely to strengthen, leading to a solid first half in which real GDP 
growth is comfortably above the potential growth rate. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
152 of 248
 
Retail sales posted a robust gain in March, and motor vehicle sales moved up sharply. 
Consumer sentiment has been at a high level following the January slump, and consumers are 
likely to be buoyed by recent solid gains in employment and the stock market. While residential 
construction continued to decline last quarter, it’s likely to benefit later this year from the recent 
step-down in long-term interest rates. In contrast, the slowdown in gains in business fixed 
investment is likely to prove more persistent. Last year’s exuberance appears to be waning. 
Surveys of businesses have generally moved lower over the past six months, reversing much of 
the run-up seen in 2016 and 2017. 
Payroll employment increased about 180,000 per month on average over the first three 
months of the year. Although that’s down a bit from the rapid gains of 2018, it’s enough to keep 
the employment to population (EPOP) ratio moving up. The unemployment rate was 3.8 percent 
in March and has been about flat since this time last year. During that time, the participation rate 
and the EPOP ratio have both moved up about ¼ percentage point, suggesting that the strong job 
market is drawing in previously marginal workers. Unemployment insurance claims recently hit 
a new low for the cycle, suggesting those solid job gains are likely to continue. And although 
job openings ticked down in the latest survey, the current level is nonetheless higher than any 
reading prior to 2018. 
And as we discussed earlier, financial conditions have continued to ease since our March 
meeting and, depending on the measure, have now either largely or entirely reversed the 
deterioration in the fourth quarter of this year. 
Overall, recent data also suggest some brightening in the foreign outlook, a welcome shift 
from the downward momentum through much of last year. Most notably, according to official 
Chinese government figures, real GDP growth picked up significantly in the first quarter after 
April 30–May 1, 2019
153 of 248
 
notable softness in the second half of last year. And today’s purchasing managers index (PMI) 
and trade “prints,” along with credit growth indicators, provide some reassurance that Chinese 
growth is stabilizing. While today’s data from Europe remain soft, they nonetheless suggest 
some pickup over the weakness of late last year. 
Taken together, recent surprises in the real activity data have generally been to the 
upside. Downside risks to activity appear considerably lower than they were earlier in the 
year—and it may even be time to start contemplating some upside risks. Policy uncertainty, 
which played a major role in financial market volatility at the end of last year, has diminished. 
There have been upbeat news reports about the ongoing U.S.–China trade discussions. Brexit 
has been delayed, providing welcome breathing room for businesses to prepare for a range of 
outcomes and for politicians to settle on an acceptable path. Against this, there may be some 
risks associated with the upcoming parliamentary elections in Europe and ongoing difficulties in 
Italy, but, for now, the picture is one of relative calm. 
Against the constructive backdrop on growth, consumption, and financial conditions, the 
past few months of inflation data have been disappointing. Monday’s official release of core 
PCE inflation indicated an increase of only 1.6 percent, down from 2 percent over the preceding 
12 months. In contrast, the Dallas Fed’s trimmed mean posted an increase of 2 percent right on 
target and up a bit from the year-earlier reading. 
A careful look at why core inflation has been somewhat weaker than expected in the past 
three months may help explain why we’re seeing divergent signals from those two measures. In 
particular, a trimmed mean measure will tend to exclude outliers, such as the declines in 
portfolio services and apparel. Because apparel and financial services prices tend to be volatile 
from month to month, it’s not clear how much signal we should take from these downside 
April 30–May 1, 2019
154 of 248
 
surprises. Additionally, as others have noted, the drop in apparel prices may reflect a 
methodology change. Consistent with the view that a substantial portion of the recent declines 
may be transitory, the staff expects some of the recent surprising weakness to unwind, with core 
inflation for the year at about 1.8 percent. 
Although the price Phillips curve looks to continue to be as flat as a pancake, the recent 
data on wages should nonetheless reassure us that the tight labor market is, indeed, having some 
effect. Average hourly earnings rose 3.2 percent over the 12 months through March, up from 
2.8 percent over the preceding 12 months, which were themselves up from the preceding year. 
The employment cost index (ECI) doesn’t show quite as much acceleration, but, with today’s 
release, that index is up about 2.8 percent over the past four quarters, similar to last year, and up 
about ½ percentage point from the increase the year before that. 
The broader economic context provides some reassurance. Nonetheless, I remain 
concerned about the soft underlying trend. As I have been saying for several years now, a 
variety of statistical filtering models suggest that underlying trend inflation has been running 
modestly below our target for several years. And this is consistent with a variety of other 
measures, such as the Michigan survey and five-year, five-year-ahead inflation compensation. 
Consistent with these developments, in this round, the staff threw in the towel on the prospects 
for further increases in underlying inflation and now assume that underlying inflation will remain 
flat at 1.8 percent instead of rising over the next few years. And, as I’ve noted previously, that 
underlying trend is a very important driver of inflation over the forecast horizon, given the very 
low rate of pass-through from resource utilization. 
Overall, the incoming data on activity suggest that short-run r* may be returning to its 
gradual upward trajectory of recent years, a development that would by itself suggest further 
April 30–May 1, 2019
155 of 248
 
modest tightening. But this isn’t the conclusion that we would reach on the basis of the softness 
in inflation and in inflation expectations. On balance, then, we should continue to be patient in 
coming months as we wait for inflation to again move up, consistent with our symmetric target. 
In the “new normal” of low interest rates and the resulting compression of our 
conventional policy buffer, it’s more important than ever to anchor inflation expectations at, and 
not below, 2 percent. The challenge that we face is how to move underlying trend inflation up to 
our target over a sustained period without also fueling the kind of financial imbalances that have 
ended the past few expansions, given the inert Phillips curve. For that reason, I too have been 
mulling the possibility that we should be looking for an opportunity to accommodate a positive 
inflation shock in a form of opportunistic reflation. I look forward to talking more about this 
tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought about limiting my comments to 
just saying “There’s still slack in the labor market” and calling it a day, but you can listen to the 
rest of it, since I’ve prepared it. 
To start with the local economy, modest growth continues in the Ninth District. Most 
sectors are doing well, with the notable exception of agriculture. A broad range of business 
contacts note that current and near-term activities are positive. Of course, I’m going to come 
back to this. 
Firms continue to report difficulty finding qualified workers, but, of course, wage growth 
also remains pretty stable at around 3 percent—my favorite two facts. Firms were reporting 
moderate pricing pressures, though quite a few offered unsolicited complaints about rising 
health-care costs. We have heard a lot more about that recently. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
156 of 248
 
On the national economy, overall, the broad economic picture has been remarkably stable 
over the past several years: steady job gains with rising prime-age labor force participation, 
subdued inflation, and low long-term interest rates. Recent numbers have not changed this 
picture very much—job growth remains strong. I was happy that March bounced back after the 
weak February. Inflation remains subdued. Long-term interest rates remain low. Among 
developments worth noting since our previous meeting is that momentum in the real economy, as 
others have noted, looks a bit stronger. Friday’s strong GDP report alleviated concerns about a 
slow Q1. On the other hand, as others have noted, inflation has fallen, with core PCE now about 
1.6 percent today, and survey measures of inflation expectations remain at or near historic lows. 
The Michigan survey is at or around 2.3 percent, which is its low. 
To return back to the labor market: I don’t think I need a new theory of inflation. I just 
think there is still slack in the labor market, and I’ve come to the point as all of you do. I go out 
and meet with a lot of businesses. I’m concluding that feedback from businesses is almost 
useless in assessing the labor market. [Laughter] My favorite comment was from a couple of 
years ago. I had a roundtable of businesses complaining that they couldn’t find workers, and I 
said, “When was the last time there was a healthy labor market? When could you find workers?” 
And they said, “Oh, 2009 was a good year.” 
Recently, I had a manufacturer tell me that we’ve had a diesel mechanic shortage for 
30 years. I said, “No, it sounds like we have exactly the right number of diesel mechanics in the 
U.S. economy if it’s been 30 years.” Now, in contrast to that, Governor Clarida came out to our 
Fed Listens event in Minneapolis. It was mostly an academic-type conference, looking at 
distributional implications of different monetary policy frameworks. But in our final session, we 
had nonprofit leaders in from a wide range of service organizations that service low-income 
April 30–May 1, 2019
157 of 248
 
communities around our region. And we did a little poll of them. We explained to them what 
maximum employment means, and we said, “Go down the line. Are we at maximum 
employment?” Unanimous. Not even close. 
So what do we do when businesses are all saying, “Oh, my gosh, I can’t find workers,” 
and people in communities are saying, “Our constituents can’t find jobs”? To me, we look at the 
price. Like every other market, we’re trying to assess supply and demand in a market. Look at 
the price, and the price of labor is wages or compensation net of productivity. And until wage 
growth and compensation net of productivity implies inflation above 2 percent, we cannot be at 
maximum employment. And that does not even include the possibility that labor share of 
income could increase. Holding that static, nominal wage growth still needs to climb, net of 
productivity, to get inflation at about 2 percent. So, to me, that explains the inflation mystery. 
There’s still slack in the labor market. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Last Friday’s GDP report indicated 
that economic growth remains strong through the first quarter, and that consumer spending was 
particularly strong in March. That’s really good news, especially in light of the weak economic 
data and market turmoil that we saw late last year or early this year. It is also consistent with my 
view that the underlying fundamentals support moderate growth in the period ahead. 
As has already been stressed, much of that apparent strength in the Q1 number is unlikely 
to persist. Tepid growth and real final sales through domestic purchasers, perhaps a better gauge 
of the underlying pace of economic activity, point to a step-down of economic growth from last 
year to a more moderate pace closer to potential this year. According to various survey and 
industrial production data, domestic production has moved somewhat in sympathy with the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
158 of 248
 
sustained weakness in manufacturing activity observed in other economies, most notably in 
Europe. And elevated inventory-to-sales ratios also signal that production could remain soft over 
the near term. 
Information on other sectors in the economy also point to a slower pace of growth. 
Indicators for the housing sector, particularly permits for single-family units, point to continued 
softness in this sector despite a significant decline in mortgage rates. And although motor 
vehicle sales did pick up quite a bit in March, the recent pattern of sales suggests that it’s 
unlikely that this sector will provide much impetus for growth this year. 
If anything, previous concerns about negative spillovers from the global economy onto 
our shores have diminished somewhat in light of the more upbeat Chinese data, yet we’re far 
from being out of the woods regarding the global growth slowdown, as signs of weakness in 
Japan, South Korea, and some regions in Europe continue. And, of course, policy space is quite 
limited in some of these areas. Now, even with the reported progress in the China trade talks, 
trade tensions and spillovers to financial markets still present downside risks. Although I expect 
some payback in growth in the second quarter, I have raised my first-half real GDP growth 
forecast to nearly 2½ percent at an annual rate, and that is a meaningful upgrade from my March 
forecast. And, like the Tealbook, I now see GDP growth for this year to be a tad above 2 percent. 
That said, the outlook does remain cloudy, and it’s still too early to declare victory that we’ve 
gone through this period of financial market turmoil and global economic uncertainty completely 
unscathed. 
Incoming news on inflation has surprised to the downside, culminating in yesterday’s 
report of the 12-month core inflation at the most cited number of today, 1.6 percent. I think the 
transcript will show that that number was mentioned by almost everybody. But, of course, as 
April 30–May 1, 2019
159 of 248
 
others have mentioned, we did see that some of this softness in inflation is probably due to 
temporary idiosyncratic factors, and the trimmed mean is close to 2 percent. I would point to 
the, I would say, somewhat soft reading on the ECI as indicating we’re seeing good wage growth 
but no real sign of acceleration in wages. 
Now, as we look ahead on inflation, we can tell a lot of stories about why apparel prices 
and prices of financial services are not properly measured. But the data are the data, and I expect 
core inflation will remain below our 2 percent target this year. I am increasingly concerned, as 
Governor Clarida mentioned, that inflation expectations are unlikely to stay anchored at 
2 percent in the context of our repeated underrunning of our goal. Indeed, just as some of the 
risks of a sharper falloff in growth recede into the past, the risk of the inflation anchor slipping 
toward shore grows in prominence. 
Let’s step back from recent events and take a longer-term view. A topic that’s garnered a 
great deal of attention among researchers is the pronounced secular decline in the rate of new 
business formation in the United States. Some commentators have worried that this development 
reflects an underlying trend—a fall in economic dynamism and potentially detrimental effects for 
innovation, productivity, and cyclical dynamics. It’s an open question as to why this is 
happening and whether this trend will likely continue or reverse any time soon. 
 Recent work done by the New York Fed staff has found that demographics—in 
particular, slowing labor force growth—has been an important factor driving the slowdown in 
new business formation in the United States. In fact, they find that nearly half of the reduction in 
business formation since the 1980s can be attributed to the decline in labor force growth, and this 
has resulted in a shift in the distribution of firms in the economy toward older firms, which tend 
to exhibit relatively low productivity growth. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
160 of 248
 
Now, to the extent that future demographic trends are already baked in the cake, the trend 
decline in new business formation is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. My point here 
is that the demographic trends both here and abroad—and these are some of the few economic 
factors that we can actually predict with a fair degree of precision—point to persistently low 
levels of both g* and r* in the future, which underscores the constraints and the nonlinearities 
associated with the zero lower bound that will shape monetary policy for quite some time. And 
for those who are interested, the latest unofficial estimates of r* actually dipped a little bit in the 
first quarter. So I just want to remind everybody that r* seems to be still quite low despite strong 
first-quarter growth. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And thanks, everyone, for your comments. The 
headline for me would be that, since the March meeting, the economy has performed broadly in 
line with our baseline expectations. Demand data have come in about as expected and appear to 
be turning up. Labor market data have been perhaps a bit stronger than expected, and inflation 
has been a bit weaker. The global risk picture has broadly, if not uniformly, evolved in a 
positive direction. Overall, it seems to me that the incoming data strongly support our current 
policy stance and our patient approach to any adjustments. 
Despite the gaudy headline number, the first-quarter GDP report showed that private 
demand slowed overall in the first quarter compared with the fourth quarter, although, as John 
has pointed out, personal consumption expenditures, PCE, has risen steadily from December’s 
low reading. The headline number was flattered by outsized increases in inventories and net 
exports, events that are unlikely to be repeated and that may, instead, reverse. Thus, to support 
the forecast of modest growth in the second quarter, we are looking for a healthy step-up in 
private domestic financial purchases (PDFP), particularly in PCE. And there is good reason to 
April 30–May 1, 2019
161 of 248
 
expect that pickup. The remarkably weak December retail sales make interpreting underlying 
sales momentum difficult, but, like many of you, I am encouraged by the latest readings on retail 
and auto sales, which point to good momentum going into the second quarter. 
In addition, solid underlying economic fundamentals support the view that we are likely 
to see a pickup in consumption growth and business investment. And I would point to more 
accommodative financial conditions and high levels of household and business confidence as 
well as strong job creation and rising wages. Overall, the risk of a deeper slide in the U.S. 
economy seems to have diminished, and the PDFP rebound story for the second quarter sounds 
credible to me. 
In contrast to the growth in labor market data, first-quarter inflation readings have 
disappointed, slipping below our 2 percent target. This was expected for headline inflation 
because of past declines in oil prices, but the decline in core PCE was not expected. Some of 
this softening may well be attributable to sizable price declines that are likely to be reversed for 
some items, such as portfolio management services and airfares. Nonetheless, after a year with 
unemployment well below most current estimates of its natural rate, it is disappointing that we 
are once again explaining away an unanticipated softening in inflation on the basis of transient 
factors. 
This pattern suggests the possibility of downside risk to longer-term inflation 
expectations and, therefore, to our ability to achieve our symmetric inflation goal on a sustained 
basis. Of course, we are not alone in this challenge, and weak inflation in the United States 
probably reflects the sustained disinflationary pressures that are causing many major central 
banks to fall short of their inflation objectives. With the labor market continuing to tighten, we 
can be patient in waiting for evidence that the drop in core inflation will be transitory. But in 
April 30–May 1, 2019
162 of 248
 
light of the history, we need to be vigilant about this and strongly committed to our 2 percent 
objective. 
The global risk picture has improved, on balance, although plenty of downside risk 
remains. The incoming data for the Chinese and European economies suggest a somewhat better 
outlook. The potential of a disruptive Brexit has been postponed until October 30, and there are 
reports of progress toward resolution of ongoing trade negotiations between the United States 
and China. 
Our shift to patience earlier this year has contributed to more supportive financial 
conditions and has helped reverse earlier declines in business and household confidence. The 
result is an improved outlook for growth. Other central banks have also moved in an 
accommodative direction, in some cases with fiscal policy support, and that has helped improve 
the global picture. 
My bottom line is that the incoming data strongly support our patient policy stance. 
Indeed, as some of the risks from around the world clarify but inflation unexpectedly weakens, 
the case for patience remains compelling. We must, of course, be prepared to respond 
appropriately if the outlook shifts materially, but, for now, I see no strong case for moving in 
either direction. 
And, with that, why don’t we move on to Thomas for his monetary policy briefing. 
MR. LAUBACH.
6 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will be referring to the handout 
labeled “Material for the Briefing on Monetary Policy Alternatives.” 
As Simon noted, the median respondent to the Desk’s surveys views as the most 
likely outcome no change in the target range for the federal funds rate between now 
and the end of 2021. When asked for the probability that they assign to outcomes for 
the target range by the end of 2019, survey respondents assigned, on average, about 
⅔ probability to no change. The average probability of a rate hike before the end of 
the year has fallen sharply since the March surveys, from about 50 percent to 
 
6 The materials used by Mr. Laubach are appended to this transcript (appendix 6). 
April 30–May 1, 2019
163 of 248
 
20 percent, and is now only slightly higher than the probability that the next move 
will be a cut. 
As shown in the upper-left panel, market-based expectations regarding the path of 
the federal funds rate have also declined somewhat further, on net, over the 
intermeeting period. The probability distribution for the federal funds rate prevailing 
by year-end, derived from federal funds futures options quotes, shifted notably to the 
left and—in contrast to the probability distribution obtained from the Desk surveys—
now assigns the highest odds to one 25 basis point reduction in the target range. 
The diagram in the upper right shows the evolution since last fall of market-
implied views on the direction of monetary policy over the next six months, as well as 
the level of conviction regarding those views. Conviction is highest at the corners of 
the triangle: The apex denotes the point at which the market-implied probability of 
the funds rate in six months’ time being the same as today’s is 100 percent. The 
lower-right and lower-left corners denote the points at which the probability of the 
funds rate being higher or lower, respectively, six months from now is 100 percent. 
As shown by the blue circles, on the eve of the September meeting, market pricing 
implied virtual certainty that the federal funds rate would be higher six months later 
than it was before the September meeting, and on the eve of the December meeting, 
there was still near certainty of a further increase. Since then, the probability 
distribution has become much more dispersed. By the time of the January meeting, 
when the blue circle moved close to the center of the triangle, market pricing implied 
almost even odds on the federal funds rate being higher, lower, or the same as the 
current target range. Although the odds of no change went up between the January 
and March meetings, as shown by the upward move in the circle, since then, they 
have shifted in the direction of a rate reduction. Of course, it is important to note that 
these are so-called risk-neutral probabilities—that is, they are “probabilities,” in the 
conventional sense of the word, only under the assumption that no risk premiums are 
embedded in futures and options prices. Still, the survey- and market-based 
probabilities point in the same direction: Over the intermeeting period, the odds of a 
rate cut before the end of the year have increased. 
We don’t know the economic outlook that underlies the options-implied 
probabilities. But it seems notable that the odds of a rate cut rose considerably when 
spending and labor market indicators received over the intermeeting period surprised, 
on balance, to the upside and, as Beth Anne mentioned, a number of risks to foreign 
economic activity eased. However, news on inflation has disappointed over the past 
couple of months. Indeed, immediately following Friday’s GDP release, the two-year 
Treasury yield fell a few basis points, with a small downside miss on inflation from 
market participants’ perspective apparently dominating the sizable upside surprise to 
headline real GDP growth. 
In discussing possible reasons for increased expectations of a reduction in the 
federal funds rate, some market commentary has pointed back to the mid-1990s 
when, following the 1994–95 tightening episode, the FOMC made several small 
adjustments to the federal funds rate target. A box in the Tealbook B examines this 
April 30–May 1, 2019
164 of 248
 
episode in greater detail and the middle panel depicts the main macroeconomic 
developments. Between February 1994 and February 1995, as the economic 
expansion gathered pace, the FOMC raised the target federal funds rate 300 basis 
points to forestall an increase in inflation, which was running near 3 percent. By the 
spring of 1995, the Committee had become reasonably confident that it had headed 
off upside pressures on inflation, but toward midyear, signs of a significant slowing in 
economic activity were accumulating. Even though the Committee regarded 
3 percent inflation as inconsistent with its price-stability mandate, it decided to take 
out insurance against the risk of a sharper slowdown in economic activity by reducing 
the funds rate target 25 basis points in July, and it did so again at its December 1995 
and January 1996 meetings. In the event, the unemployment rate, which had 
remained near 5½ percent during 1995, resumed its downward trend in 1996. At the 
same time, core inflation peaked near 3 percent in the fall of 1995 and then began to 
decline even as the expansion gathered momentum. 
Of course, there are many differences between the situation in the mid-1990s and 
today. That period illustrates the point that, after monetary policy has been returned 
during an expansion to the vicinity of a neutral stance, some limited adjustments in 
either direction can become appropriate. Today, although confidence in the durability 
of the economic expansion in the United States has revived since the turn of the year, 
some risks to the outlook remain. In addition, recent low readings on inflation raise 
the question of whether, over time, resource utilization will be sufficiently high to 
return inflation sustainably to 2 percent. If low inflation were to persist, the 
Committee could confront at some point, as in 1995, the question of whether some 
modest adjustment to its policy stance would better balance the risks to attaining the 
Committee’s objectives. 
As noted in the lower-left panel, with alternative B, the Committee would 
acknowledge the recent softness in inflation readings, but it would signal that those 
readings have not altered its modal outlook that inflation will return to 2 percent in 
the context of a strong labor market and sustained economic expansion. This 
assessment might be supported by the observation that, although some measures of 
longer-term inflation expectations have remained low, they are little changed, on 
balance, over the past couple of years. Expectations in the Michigan survey of 
inflation over the next 5 to 10 years, the blue line to the right, have “printed” again at 
the lowest historical level for this series, but they have been little changed, on net, 
since late 2016, as has far-forward inflation compensation, the black line. In fact, 
inflation compensation has continued to increase while the market-based path of the 
federal funds rate declined. Of course, inflation compensation is a noisy measure of 
inflation expectations. But an estimate of far-forward inflation expectations derived 
from a staff term structure model that I discussed in January, the red line, has also 
been flat for the past year. 
As Stacey discussed, the staff projects that 12-month core inflation will hold 
steady for the next few months and then gradually rise later this year. Should 
inflation instead continue to surprise to the downside, alternative A offers an option 
under which the Committee could signal greater concern about persistently low 
April 30–May 1, 2019
165 of 248
 
inflation. Such communications would need to be crafted carefully, lest they convey 
a false sense of pessimism about the economic outlook or inadvertently foster a 
buildup in financial stability risks. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That completes my prepared remarks; the March 
statement and the draft alternatives and implementation note are shown on pages 2 to 
7 of the handout. I will be happy to take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. Any questions for Thomas? Vice Chair. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I have a question about this episode. I mean, one thing that 
I’m curious about is, what did the funds rate get to? 
MR. LAUBACH. It got to 6 percent. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Oh, 6 percent. So that was probably viewed at the time as 
being restrictive policy. 
MR. LAUBACH. That’s right. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So policy—I mean, they didn’t have cutting-edge 
technology to do that assessment. 
MR. LAUBACH. I’m happy to report that the July 1995 transcript does include a 
conversation about the equilibrium interest rate. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Which would be below this. Okay. So the FOMC at the 
time tightened to a contractionary state, saw the economy slow—perhaps more than they wanted 
to—and then brought monetary policy back, maybe more closely to a more neutral stance. Is 
that the right way that you would describe that episode? 
MR. LAUBACH. My sense from reading the transcripts is that it had really a lot to do 
with the balancing of risks, right? I mean, the strength of the expansion, I think, in 1994 took 
them by surprise, and there was, of course, at that time, I think, a greater concern about inflation 
expectations and inflation becoming unanchored to the upside—in particular, since, again, 
inflation was running around 3 percent at the time, which many of them did not view as 
April 30–May 1, 2019
166 of 248
 
consistent with price stability. So there was really a greater concern about dealing with that risk. 
And then, as 1995 unfolded, the outlook turned darker which I think was due in part to, for 
example, developments in Mexico, right?—and, against that backdrop, basically, they made this 
adjustment. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I mean, one interpretation would be that we’ve barely gotten 
to neutral now. And the difference between then and now is, we didn’t do the last 50 basis 
points—you know, kind of getting into a more restrictive kind of zone. 
MR. LAUBACH. That’s right. I mean, it’s not obvious from the transcript how far they 
viewed themselves being above neutral. Certainly, they viewed themselves, I think, closer to 
neutral at 6 percent than they had been at 3 percent, so that was clear. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. You know, if you put the middle chart together with alternative A, you 
might make the case that what happened in ’95 was an effort to support inflation by taking the 
rate down. The chart doesn’t show it that way, at least not to me. The chart suggests that growth 
was slowing and they took the rate down. And, actually, during this period, core inflation, at 
least, continued to decrease. Did inflation expectations increase, or would you use this to 
describe a reflation story? Or is it really just a growth–balance of risks story? 
MR. LAUBACH. I think, at the time, it was more a balancing act between not slowing 
economic activity too much and not letting inflation rise again. So they certainly wanted to lock 
in the inflation gains that they had achieved. The decline in inflation, I think—it came a little 
more as a surprise. So when you look at the transcript—certainly, for example, at the time of the 
December meeting—one thing that was important at the time was that they pointed to, actually, 
declines in inflation expectations over the second half of 1995. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
167 of 248
 
MR. BARKIN. So there’s no case in this story that, by taking the rates down 25 or 
50 basis points, you support inflation. It actually, weirdly, went the other way. 
MR. LAUBACH. That’s right—which is why I tried to point out that the analogy here is 
actually not that close to the situation right now. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thomas, is this the right way to think about it, too? Following on Vice 
Chair Williams—I’m lost. I’m in alphabet soup. If you look ex-post at this episode, my 
recollection about how we think about it is that we’ve moved down u* ex post because we knew 
that it was lower than we thought it was at the time. And r*—we overtightened a little bit on 
this, and we got slower growth. Then the explanation for why inflation came down 
precipitously, even though we didn’t know it, was, we got a big positive productivity shock, and 
we also had global factors causing a deflation. Here we’re reporting some deflation. So 
although I think it’s illustrative of the tightening cycle, my lesson from this was always that we 
maybe overtightened, got slower growth, and then had a variety of other things that resulted in 
this picture we see. So is that how you would read it? 
MR. LAUBACH. That’s right, I think. And, in particular, I would say that it is, at least 
from the transcripts, not clear that, in some sense, there was a strong push toward actively further 
disinflating. In fact, at the December 1995 meeting Don Kohn gave a memorable briefing about 
opportunistic disinflation. And that, basically, set the stage and considered that as one of the 
possibilities that, maybe, they might see positive supply shocks, and that turned out, in the event, 
to be the story. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
168 of 248
 
MR. BULLARD. My recollection is that there were some real-time data issues in the 
first half of 1995. Is this true—so that it looks different today, if you look at the history, than it 
did at the time? 
MR. LAUBACH. What I’m showing here on the chart is our data that I don’t think are 
so much affected by real-time issues, because— 
MR. BULLARD. But I think real GDP looked weaker than it subsequently turned out 
to be. 
MR. LAUBACH. Yes, but—I mean, the unemployment rate, for example, did drift up a 
little bit in the spring of ’95. Employment growth in real time—actually, payroll employment 
fell a little bit in the spring of ’95. So there were, in real time, signs of clear weakness that they 
responded to. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Well, I mean, it’s easily the case that you’re right about real-time data. 
One thing that I remember—I actually had the high honor of attending that meeting for the first 
time, and I remember Chairman Greenspan was big on the risk management. And he kept 
talking about vendor-supplier deliveries and the PMI. Now, whether that gets revised, I’m not 
sure. But he looked at that as, inflation is coming. Then it didn’t, and then it was coming down, 
so that helped. But I’m sure that it had real-time aspects. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. I would just give a little bit different interpretation from some of 
the others here. I think that the 300 basis points was very sharp. It was one of the toughest years 
for the bond market in the postwar era and went all the way to 6 percent. I think that kind of sent 
the signal, coming out of the ’80s, that the Committee was extremely serious about getting 
April 30–May 1, 2019
169 of 248
 
inflation lower, and I think it probably did set inflation expectations lower and set the tone for 
the rest of the ’90s. 
But there was this kind of reaction that we had maybe overdone it. I would say I agree 
with Vice Chair Williams that we had gone into restrictive territory. But the analogy to today, in 
my mind, is that we are mildly restrictive today in an environment with inflation lower and 
below target. So I think there is some analogy to draw here between the mid-’90s and today. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. I’m just wondering: We didn’t have an SEP at that time, did we? 
MR. LAUBACH. The projections that the Committee participants provided, to be 
summarized in the MPR, were pretty short-horizon. In February, it was for the current calendar 
year—1995—and in July, it was for the current and next calendar years—1995 and 1996. So 
they didn’t go out very far. But those projections exist, and they were published in summary 
form. 
MS. BRAINARD. I’m just wondering: We just got an enormous effect on the long end 
of the curve just coming from a change in the slope of the SEP forecasts. And what would be the 
analogy here? Would there have been a mechanism for doing that, absent this actual adjustment 
in the short rate? 
MR. LAUBACH. The closest mechanism that I can think of was mainly the set of 
Delphic utterances by Greenspan—they could certainly move the long end of the yield curve—
but nothing really more than that. In particular, the projections that were published in summary 
form in the MPR didn’t, of course, include anything about interest rates. 
MR. POTTER. I think what happened is, they started slowly increasing rates, and the 
bond market laughed. They started increasing rates a little bit more, and the bond market kept on 
April 30–May 1, 2019
170 of 248
 
laughing. And then they did a 75-basis-point increase, felt they had to keep going, and looked at 
it and thought, “Boy, we almost collapsed the whole thing.” Think Orange County. 
MR. KAPLAN. Remember the Mexico crisis. You remember that Colosio got 
assassinated in March? Remember tesobonos? Ring a bell? That all happened in 1994, and you 
had some tremendous stress. Our firm almost failed that year, you may remember. 
CHAIR POWELL. Orange County and Bankers Trust. 
MR. KAPLAN. Yes. So then I think the feeling was that the Fed overdid it and maybe 
took a breather. But a very different—we’ve got our problems right now, but this is a far more 
benign period than that one. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Fascinating conversation. I will be brief, because we could all go on on 
this. But I think that one thing about this episode that is absolutely important for what we think 
about is, when we talk about well-anchored inflation expectations and credibility, I would argue 
and have argued that this episode was really crucial in monetary history, in the sense that this is 
the time when the FOMC essentially hiked rates very aggressively at a rate of inflation that, over 
the previous 15 years, would have been considered low. 
Remember, it had been over 14 percent, and Volcker got it down to 4 percent. So this 
was the episode when—I wasn’t in this room, but I guess Charlie was, and I could read the 
transcripts—that the Committee said, “You know, we don’t want to go above 3 percent.” And it 
wasn’t pretty, and there was blood in the streets. But when we talk about well-anchored inflation 
expectations, a lot of it was really that episode. I think President Bullard alluded to that. I’ll be a 
little bit more blunt. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
171 of 248
 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. I would just say one other thing about the yield curve, and I 
guess Simon was saying this. At first, when we raised rates, the long rates went up one-for-one. 
But then, as you got further through the year, the yield curve got flatter and flatter, and it almost 
inverted, but not quite, and then pulled back a little bit later. So the yield curve signal—it didn’t 
quite invert in this situation. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Maybe the last word. I happened to read this transcript in the 
intermeeting period as well, and I would say, there are so many ways to differentiate it. I would 
say, take a step back. The real point is, though, that if real GDP growth weakens and that sends 
you a signal that, in fact, monetary policy may be tight, there’s evidence for being able to take a 
quick move—actually, 75 basis points—and things get going again. So it’s a perfectly standard 
move. They did it again in 1998, of course, in a different situation—a 75-basis-point cut—and 
then, after that, raised 175 basis points. So there was a lot of zigging and zagging in this exactly 
10-year-long expansion. That, for me, is the “takeaway.” I don’t see it as applying to our 
current situation, but, nonetheless, I think the history is informative. 
And, with that, we now adjourn to the elegant West Court Café. All FOMC participants 
and visiting staff members, as well as everyone here, are invited. And we reconvene tomorrow 
morning at 9:00 a.m. Thank you. 
[Meeting recessed] 
 
April 30–May 1, 2019
172 of 248
 
May 1 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. Let’s go right into the policy go-round, 
beginning with Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. I support alternative B as written. It does 
make sense after the recent inflation data to acknowledge that measures of inflation have 
“declined and are running below 2 percent” and that “growth of household spending and 
business fixed investment slowed in the first quarter”—but acknowledging that economic 
activity continues to be solid. We continue in the statement to state that survey-based measures 
of inflation expectations are little changed. And while that’s true, many of us pointed out 
yesterday they’re little changed at very low levels historically. 
In regard to the way forward for the economy and monetary policy, I’d like to make three 
points. First, the median SEP long-run u* number as of March is now at 4.3 percent. And seven 
participants, including me, project a long-run u* of 4.2 percent or lower. Over the past 
12 months, the unemployment rate has averaged 3.8 percent and, as recently as January, stood 
at 4. So, with the most recent inflation data, we face an inflation gap that is modestly negative 
and an output gap that is modestly positive. And if I plug that in, along with my estimate of r*, 
to a traditional Taylor rule, I get a policy rate very much in line with where we are now. 
Second, as we all appreciate, monetary policy needs to be forward looking, and it can be 
subject to long and variable lags, as Milton Friedman taught us. An important judgment that the 
Committee will need to make in the months ahead is how best to strike the proper balance among 
three compelling realities. The first reality is an inclination to be preemptive because of those 
long and variable lags, but the second reality is that we need to consult models to inform the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
173 of 248
 
basis for any preemptive move. And the third, of course, is that models can be wrong, and we 
need to take that into account as well as we’re calibrating our response. 
Now, in my previous life, in my theoretical academic research, I had been a strong 
proponent of consulting forward-looking policy rules in which the policy rate feeds back not on 
present, but expected future inflation and, potentially, also expected future output gaps. My 
research showed that if a central bank knows the true model of the economy, then a model-
consistent forecast of inflation is the appropriate input into a policy feedback rule, and, of course, 
that directly deals with the long-and-variable-lags problem. 
I’ve come to appreciate in my six months here, however, that I also need to take into 
account the fact that I don’t know the true model of the economy. I wish I did. In particular, I 
don’t know either the slope or the intercept of the Phillips curve, and, of course, the FOMC’s 
views on the intercept of the Phillips curve have been shifting down over the years. Speaking for 
myself, I think this suggests that close attention should be paid to market- and survey-based 
measures of expected inflation and to the yield curve slope as reality checks against the 
predictions of various models. 
And then, third, while I appreciate that the existing language in paragraph 2 that refers to 
global economic and financial developments may need to be reconsidered at some point, I do 
feel that the language “the Committee will be patient as it determines . . . future adjustments to 
the policy rate should be retained, at least until such time as we are really ready to signal an 
imminent change in policy. I think patience has served us well, and I don’t detect that it has 
been misunderstood in any significant way. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
174 of 248
 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I favor alternative B as written. The language 
continues to reflect that policy is on hold, and that the Committee can continue to remain patient 
regarding future rate hikes. With the softening in price pressures, there’s no reason to change the 
stance of policy. But if inflation and inflation expectations decline further, that stance may need 
to be reconsidered. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. With 
growth likely to be a bit above potential but inflation below target for now, I think the current 
level of the funds rate is appropriate. 
I would note that many of the risks we perceived at the outset of this year have subsided. 
Stock markets, both here and abroad, have recovered nicely over the first quarter. Chinese real 
output growth seems to have responded positively to policy changes. The likelihood of 
destabilizing trade wars appears to be reduced, as public statements make a trade agreement 
seem imminent. 
Despite this positive news, my biggest concern remains Europe. European banks are not 
showing great resilience, the politics seem more fragmented, and recent sluggish output has been 
discouraging. In addition, the willingness and ability of monetary or fiscal policy to respond to a 
significant downturn are beginning to be questioned. Assuming Europe is able to muddle 
through, I see little reason to alter monetary policy in the near term. While inflation is soft, I 
expect, like most forecasters, that the softness is temporary. In addition, I expect labor costs and 
diminished markups to gradually place more upward pressure on inflation. 
Finally, I believe it is important that we not encourage expectations that we are likely to 
ease. Not only do I think it is premature to talk about easing, with the Tealbook forecast of the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
175 of 248
 
unemployment rate expected to fall to near-historic lows, but I’m also concerned that such 
expectations will encourage more reach-for-yield behavior in financial markets. Several of our 
most recent expansions have ended when financial markets became too exuberant. I would like 
to avoid our own communications possibly contributing to this risk. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. Since our 
previous meeting, many of the concerns about the economy’s performance have eased. 
Incoming real-side data have surprised on the upside, and financial markets have continued their 
rebound. Despite these positive developments, the inflation data continue to disappoint, 
underscoring the need for ongoing policy patience. 
As many noted yesterday, recent low inflation readings owe to declines in idiosyncratic 
sectors that well may be transitory. But this has been a feature of nearly all of the gains and 
losses in inflation over the past several years. Idiosyncratic sectors push inflation up toward 
2 percent, and then they bring it down below 2 percent. In contrast, based on models by Stock 
and Watson, the San Francisco Fed, and the New York Fed, the contributions of inflation from 
more cyclically sensitive sectors have barely budged despite considerable changes in 
unemployment and output gaps. 
This inflation puzzle that so many of us, including the staff, have been pondering—this is 
the puzzle. So how should we think about this? Well, if you think the slope of the Phillips curve 
is something other than zero, which I hold, too—the laws of supply and demand do still work—
and you think that inflation expectations remain anchored at 2 percent, which I also believe, 
despite some softening of inflation expectations, then you’re left with the unemployment gaps, 
which are larger than we think. In our model framework, this would mean that u* is lower than 
April 30–May 1, 2019
176 of 248
 
the broad consensus had penciled in. And you can look at the SEP, the Tealbook, or the Blue 
Chip. 
As Stacey noted yesterday, we generally balk at moving our long-run variables around 
over the business cycle. We don’t like to move the star variables. After all, these variables, in 
our minds, are largely determined by fundamental factors such as demographics and 
productivity, and models meant to directly or indirectly estimate them rarely include other 
factors that would move them up and down over the course of the business cycle. But it’s also 
important to recognize that these are just estimated values, and that our models, by construction, 
are incomplete and cannot capture all of the factors that temporarily buffet these star variables. 
Now, I’m going to turn to r*, where we’ve experienced this very thing. I knew I’d get a 
look from Vice Chair Williams. [Laughter] Over the past several years, we’ve talked about 
headwinds and tailwinds that have made short-run r* lower or higher than our long-run 
estimates. And while we struggle to exactly quantify these movements, we learn about them by 
watching other variables—for instance, the response of the economy to changes in our funds rate 
path. In fact, we talked about this yesterday, looking at the 1990s. The FOMC learned that r* 
was probably different from what it thought when it raised the funds rate in the ’90s and saw the 
economy slow more sharply than had been predicted. 
I would argue that the same can be true for u*. In the long run, it’s also driven by 
fundamental factors related to average job matching rates across age cohorts and other long-run 
labor market dynamics. But in the short run, temporary factors can move it higher or lower than 
its steady-state value, and we saw this in the Great Recession when we moved u* estimates up 
because we thought job matching was falling. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
177 of 248
 
But as I described yesterday, there is growing micro evidence that this is happening right 
now—that, in fact, firms are lowering skill requirements or recruiting more intensively and that 
job-finding rates are increasing across the distribution of workers, particularly marginalized 
workers. This would effectively lower labor market frictions and put downward pressure on 
current estimates of u*. 
To me, this all says that short-run u* is likely lower than the long-run natural rate we 
typically write down in our SEP. And, admittedly, estimates of short-run u* are highly uncertain 
and hard to pin down ex ante. But with inflation, particularly cyclical inflation, so muted, it 
seemed clear to me that numbers like 4.6 or 4.3 percent are too high, and something more like 4 
percent is likely. 
So, to conclude, with the economy projected to grow at about trend, the funds rate 
currently near neutral, and inflation still below target, patience is appropriate. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B and the statement as 
written. My modal outlook is little changed since our previous meeting. Over the forecast 
horizon, I expect the expansion will continue, with growth at or slightly above trend; strong labor 
markets, with payroll job growth slowing toward trend but sufficient to keep the unemployment 
rate below 4 percent; and inflation near 2 percent. The recent softer readings on core inflation 
are somewhat troubling but, at this point, look to reflect some temporary idiosyncratic factors 
rather than a more pernicious drop in aggregate demand that will destabilize inflation 
expectations. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
178 of 248
 
As I discussed yesterday, it seems the prudent course of action, which is consistent with 
the Committee’s balanced approach to achieving its dual-mandate goals, is to keep the funds rate 
at its current level, which is in the range of estimates of neutral, and to continue to assess 
economic conditions to ensure our policy is best calibrated to support sustained expansion and 
the achievement of our dual-mandate goals. 
If inflation continues to undershoot the 2 percent target, the Committee is going to have 
to assess how comfortable it feels tolerating the undershoot and allowing inflation to drift back 
up, rather than taking bold action to raise inflation expectations to get inflation up sooner. 
Presumably, one’s comfort level depends on what else is happening in the economy and whether 
the undershoot is expected to worsen or not. If real GDP growth begins to fall below trend, the 
unemployment rate rises, and inflation expectations start to fall, there could be a compelling case 
for easing, depending on the magnitude of the deterioration. 
The more difficult case is continued soft inflation in the face of continued expansion, 
strong labor markets, and stable inflation expectations. In this case, a strategy of toleration may 
be the best from a balanced-approach perspective. Following such a strategy has gone fairly well 
for the Committee. From 2012 through 2018, headline PCE inflation averaged 1.4 percent, and 
core PCE inflation averaged 1.6 percent. At the same time, the unemployment rate fell from 
over 8 percent to under 4 percent, and the real output growth averaged over 2¼ percent. 
The Committee began a gradual normalization of the federal funds rate starting in 
December 2015. Of course, one could argue that our policy reflected forecasts of inflation that 
had it moving back up to 2 percent, an outcome that was not fully realized. Nonetheless, in 
retrospect, even with the benefit of hindsight, I’m not convinced one can make a convincing case 
that the overall economy and our performance on our dual mandate would now be 
April 30–May 1, 2019
179 of 248
 
demonstratively better had we been less tolerant of the inflation undershoot. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. As I’ve said in the past couple of meetings, I 
support our patient path in alternative B but would much prefer to move to a no-forward-
guidance version of the statement, with the final sentence of paragraph 2 omitted and its neutral 
positioning explained at the press conference. I’m hopeful that we’ll do that in June, when I 
expect support to come from a dot plot demonstrating little shift in the expected policy rate 
trajectory. 
Stepping back to today’s statement, I suggest we acknowledge how close we are to our 
mandate. Growth is at or above trend. Unemployment is below the natural rate. Inflation, even 
with Monday’s relatively weak reading, has rounded to our target for some time now. Yes, the 
staff’s downgrade of underlying inflation to 1.8 percent highlights the fact that inflation, though 
very close to our target, has been persistently just below it. But I worry that we simply don’t 
have the tools to achieve a finely calibrated overshoot, and an attempt to do so in pursuit of a 
modest benefit could put our broader performance at risk. I really hope we’ll avoid the 
temptation to tinker, in the hopes of possibly getting a marginally better outcome. 
In an economy that I view as being increasingly influenced, as I said yesterday, by 
business and consumer sentiment, I hope we can use this moment to provide some valuable 
stability through our actions and our communications. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B. In January, looming 
threats to the sustainability of the economic expansion caused us to put rate hikes on hold and 
April 30–May 1, 2019
180 of 248
 
enter into a patient risk-management policy mode. Today the outlook for activity does not 
appear nearly as fragile as it did at our past couple of meetings. 
I do think there’s more to look at, however. Namely, the news on inflation has broken 
the wrong way—in an important way, I think—and it’s done that this year. Core inflation 
currently is flirting with 1½ percent, and the Tealbook forecast doesn’t have it reaching 2 percent 
until 2023, well beyond the medium-run forecast horizon. Such a projection just doesn’t seem 
consistent with a symmetric 2 percent inflation objective, in my opinion. 
I will agree that today, I think, it continues to be appropriate to leave the funds rate where 
it is and communicate patience about future policy moves. I think that, if I understand it 
correctly, the balanced approach that President Mester mentioned as one scenario has a lot of 
merit in the situation in which inflation is running a bit lower than we would like but the 
economy is doing better, so we kind of see how that helps with the inflation outlook. 
But, having said that, I would like to mention that I’m an alumnus of the University of 
Virginia. And last year, I was just totally morose over the fact that they went out of the NCAA 
tournament in the first game as the number one seed. But I’m very pleased that they won the 
entire NCAA championship this year, and it really took a lot of effort, a little luck, and some 
officiating that broke their way. [Laughter] But in one particular instance, there was, with no 
time remaining, somebody who had the opportunity to make three free throws. He made them 
perfectly, right through, and then they won that game. 
That reminds me. On my social media, I noticed somebody was talking about the Fed 
and inflation, and they had one of these GIFs—you know, one of these repeating little video 
vignettes. It was somebody at the free-throw line, sort of a weekend basketball person just by 
themselves, and they got it about three-fourths of the way to the hoop. And the whole point of 
April 30–May 1, 2019
181 of 248
 
this was, this is what the FOMC has been doing with inflation for the past many years. It’s not 
even getting to the rim. It’s just, boom, not even close. 
MR. KASHKARI. Let the record show that this was not me. [Laughter] 
MR. EVANS. Now, you can say, “Well, that’s not really very fair. There were a lot of 
factors, and a lot of things had happened.” But, nevertheless, that is the type of outcome that sort 
of reinforces the wrong impression that 2 percent is a ceiling and that the Committee really has 
no intention of doing what it takes in order to get inflation above 2 and defending symmetry. 
And that does worry me quite a lot. 
You know, we’ve seen recent low-inflation data that are troubling, and there are a couple 
of different ways that you might look at it. It could be temporary. It could be one of these 
potholes in inflation. It could be like the Verizon data. There’s something with apparel. Maybe 
apparel prices have always been low, and we’re just learning that—right?—and inflation has 
been worse than we thought. But at any rate, maybe it’s temporary, and we’ll get past that. 
We’ve seen this before, though, and it’s sort of gotten us up to 2 percent. You know, if you redo 
that GIF, every now and then, the guy hits the rim, but it falls straight down. It just doesn’t get 
there. 
The other is, maybe it’s going to be persistent, and we’re going to be below that unless 
we take additional accommodative action—that, somehow, the setting of the neutral rate is not 
consistent with how we’re doing this. Is it possible that we’re going to get 2½ percent for 
inflation? That seems very difficult to imagine. Even though the unemployment rate is at 
3¾, you would think that that ought to be enough to help out with inflationary pressures. But 
I’m worrying that that’s not going to happen. If we don’t talk about this and if we don’t make 
sure that we get across the situation that this is worth paying attention to and we can’t let it go 
April 30–May 1, 2019
182 of 248
 
on, or else we will underrun our inflation objective, I worry about giving the appearance of 
inflation complacency. 
Is this a big deal? Is this important? I mean, 1¾ percent inflation—it isn’t so bad, is it? I 
mean, maybe we should have chosen 1½ to 2½ percent as our inflation range. We didn’t, 
though. We said 2 percent, and every time we say 2 percent and don’t live up to it, people have 
to think about, what does that really mean? We didn’t sign up for that. 
So I think it’s going to be important to demonstrate that we do have that credibility. The 
reason why this is important is, at some point, the Chair—maybe in a few years, maybe after a 
long, successful term here, somebody is going to have to get up and say, “We need to take action 
that’s going to provide accommodation.” And if we’re at the lower bound and we have to do 
more, it’s going to rely on people believing that we’ll do that. So I think that’s very important. I 
think every little bit that we help out with in light of these low-inflation data can help us in the 
future. 
At any rate, that’s how I see it. I think that today’s current policy setting is fine, but I do 
think that we need to pay attention to this. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’m a little worried I’m not going to be able to 
finish my coffee before this meeting is over. [Laughter] So I’m going to lengthen it a little bit. 
[Laughter] 
I actually just have a few comments, but I thought I would make the case that the current 
policy setting is mildly restrictive and that, therefore, we might be out of position, given the 
current inflation readings. There are three parts to this argument. I’ve talked about them before. 
One is r*. I think r* is lower than you think it is, and I think I can make a good case for it. I 
April 30–May 1, 2019
183 of 248
 
would interpret r* as being the trend in short-term real safe rates since the 1980s. That trend has 
dropped nearly 600 basis points since the mid-’80s. I would see the trend as something that this 
Committee does not control. We have a lot of influence over short safe rates, but we don’t 
control the trend in that rate. 
I would urge you to take a global focus when you’re thinking about this issue. So it’s not 
just a U.S. safe rate—it’s the global safe rate, especially counting Europe and Japan. 
I would encourage you to use a model-free approach. A model is always going to give 
you this mean-reverting tendency, and I would just take that out. Just look at the trend based on 
the data alone. If you do that, it depends exactly on how you go about that, but you’re going to 
get an r* that’s closer to zero. You could even argue it’s negative, but, okay, let’s go with zero 
globally. And I think you’d come to the conclusion that there’s not really any evidence of mean 
reversion. You’ve had a long downward trend. There is really no indication that it’s going back 
up. A lot of our models would naturally incorporate some mean-reversion idea—that you’re at 
the bottom, and now you’re going to go back to whatever the mean of the series was over the 
past 30 years. That’s not happening. So I would just say, over the forecast horizon, set r* to 
zero for purposes of policymaking here at the table. 
The second part would be to downweight the output gap, and the new Tealbook policy 
rule has done that. It used to be an alpha of 1.0 on the output gap. Now it’s an alpha of 0.2. 
That’s a factor of 5. So this is going to put a lot less emphasis on the size of the output gap or 
where the u* is or the y* is, because whatever that gap is, it’s going to be less important than it 
was. And I think this is totally appropriate. We’ve had, really, two years of above-trend growth 
and crazy low unemployment, and if there was ever a time when you thought the empirical 
effects of the Phillips curve were going to assert themselves, it would have been during this era. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
184 of 248
 
And yet we’re still sitting here today with core PCE inflation at 1.6 percent, well below our 
target. 
So I think it’s appropriate to downweight that. There’s plenty of evidence over the past 
two decades that there’s just less feedback from the real economy to inflation, which means that 
the slope of the empirical Phillips curve is close to zero. That doesn’t mean there isn’t a 
structural Phillips curve out there. That’s true, but you can’t just cite the fact that unemployment 
is low and say, “Well, based on that, inflation is going to be higher in the future.” So I think this 
distinction between the slope of the empirical Phillips curve and the slope of the structural 
Phillips curve is an important one, but the empirical Phillips curve is the one that has the slope 
that has gone to zero. So we can’t take a signal from low unemployment the way we would have 
been able to do in the past in order to be able to predict how inflation is going to evolve. 
There are good reasons for that. It has everything to do with the credibility of this 
Committee, other central banks around the world, inflation targeting, and so on, which I’ve 
argued before. But the upshot of this is that you greatly downweight the real-economy gap term 
in your Taylor-type policy rule. 
Finally, where is inflation? I’ve already cited it here several times—that core PCE 
inflation year over year is 1.6 percent. This has been a surprise to the downside. The staff has 
marked down their forecast. I agree with President Evans. It is disconcerting to have a forecast 
that says you’re not going to hit the inflation target even over the medium term. I would 
interpret inflation expectations, as Governor Clarida mentioned, as being on the low side of 
where we’d like to see them. 
If you put these features into a modernized Taylor-type policy rule, the recommendation 
will come to a neutral rate in the low 2 percent range, depending exactly on how you do this. So 
April 30–May 1, 2019
185 of 248
 
I would say we’re modestly restrictive today, which is concerning because we’re in an 
environment with core PCE inflation less than 2 percent. You could mitigate this somewhat by 
saying core PCE inflation is maybe not the optimal measure. You might want to look at the 
Dallas Fed trimmed-mean rate, which is at 2 percent. But, even if you go in that direction, you’d 
be mildly restrictive with inflation at target, as opposed to inflation somewhat below target, and 
it’s not clear you want to be restrictive in this environment. 
So now may be a good time to think about a slightly lower setting for the policy rate. I 
agree with a lot of the comments of President Evans here. I think there would be clear benefits 
to this. I think we could try to re-center inflation expectations at our 2 percent target and build 
up credibility for our 2 percent target while the moment is a good one for doing that. I think we 
could steepen up the yield curve some and get away from the potentially inverted yield curve 
issue. 
I love the 1995 example, which we looked at yesterday. We could drive a longer and 
more successful expansion. I think ’95 was obviously different in some ways, but it was similar 
in the sense that you had this 300-basis-point normalization—we had a 225 basis point 
normalization in a much lower interest rate environment. And the Committee was flexible 
enough to make adjustments and stop soon enough to get the expansion to continue all of the 
way through the second half of the ’90s, one of the most successful periods in postwar U.S. 
macroeconomic history. 
Finally, I think a benefit would be that building up credibility for the inflation target will 
help us stay away from the effective lower bound, because it will show that the Committee is 
serious about the 2 percent inflation target. So I think that that’s an important thing to keep in 
mind. In my view, the ECB is an example of a central bank that has let this slide over time and 
April 30–May 1, 2019
186 of 248
 
lost their credibility. Now they’re looking at their core inflation rate at 1 percent, not able to 
move it up toward 2 percent. We don’t want to be in that situation, so I think it is important to 
defend the inflation target from the low side. 
Having said all of this, I think it’s premature at this meeting, but perhaps not for long. I 
think it might be, at future meetings, well worth thinking about. So I support alt-B for today, but 
I may want to shift to something like alternative A, especially if inflation and inflation 
expectations news continues to drag. 
I think this particular statement may come off as slightly “dovish.” We’re highlighting 
the inflation numbers as pretty much the only change in the statement. I think that might be a 
good thing. It might gently suggest that we’re paying attention to this, and we’re going to be 
alert to this possibility. 
Finally, I’m mildly concerned that we continue to cite global financial developments later 
in the statement. I think that was put in mainly in response to events in the December–January 
time frame, which have now dissipated. I’m happy to go with it for today, but I think we might 
want to find a graceful exit from that in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written, although I 
would echo what President Bullard said about dropping the reference to global financial 
developments, because I no longer believe that is applicable in the situation we face. So if we 
don’t drop it today, I think we should be scrutinizing it for the future. 
My own view is, if the economy continues to grow in the range of 2¼ percent in 2019 
and the trimmed mean from our point of view is in the range of 2 percent, I believe that our 
April 30–May 1, 2019
187 of 248
 
policy setting of 2¼ to 2½ percent is roughly appropriate for the time being. But I would 
emphasize that the key words here are “for the time being.” 
In the next several months, I’ll be particularly monitoring the following things: number 
one, trends in growth outside the United States. And I’ll continue to check and see how those 
might affect negatively U.S. growth prospects if outside growth continues to worsen. I will be 
closely watching the evolution of financial conditions, particularly credit spreads, the shape of 
the yield curve, and potential excesses and imbalances that could be building, specifically 
relating to debt buildup in the form of corporate debt, in particular given the sluggishness that 
we’re currently seeing in margin growth and earnings growth. By the way, I worry that this 
problem could worsen with a lower policy rate than the one we have now, but I think, even with 
our current policy rate, these excesses and imbalances will continue to build. 
Regarding inflation, I do believe cyclical pressures will continue to build. But I continue 
to believe the structural forces of technology, technology-enabled disruption, and, to some lesser 
extent, globalization continue to mute the pricing power of businesses and are muting inflation 
trends. 
During this period, I’ll be vigilant in watching carefully the development of these trends. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Chairman Powell. I support alternative B as written. The 
available economic data now indicate that GDP rose at a strong pace again last quarter. The data 
also showed that household and business spending growth slowed. That said, I believe first-
quarter numbers for these spending categories will improve as we go forward. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
188 of 248
 
We continue to see signs that the labor market is very strong, with the unemployment rate 
well below what the staff notes as the natural rate of unemployment, as many have noted, and 
with labor force participation showing ongoing strength when viewed against its downward trend 
due to the aging population. 
Financial markets have improved since the end of last year, overall borrowing conditions 
continue to be favorable, and residential mortgage rates have dropped to their lowest levels in 
more than a year. 
Regarding price stability, we have yet to experience an extended period where inflation 
has been at our 2 percent target. Near-term inflation developments, therefore, as many others 
have noted this morning, warrant close and continued monitoring. But it remains my baseline 
expectation that the performance of the domestic economy in 2019 will continue to be strong and 
that inflation will soon move back up or close to our 2 percent target. 
It’s challenging to determine what the new normal and the new neutral rate of interest 
should be in the post-crisis environment, but the economic data suggest our current policy rate 
may be close to a neutral stance of monetary policy. That is, it does not appear that we are 
currently exerting significant headwinds or tailwinds on the economy, in my view. 
Moreover, the information we’ve received since our March meeting suggests that a wait-
and-see approach is still the appropriate course of action. Maintaining a patient stance while 
carefully monitoring economic conditions should allow us to continue to assess the effect of 
previous Committee actions and our ongoing adjustments to the balance sheet. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
189 of 248
 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, support alternative B as written. I see 
the current setting of monetary policy as appropriate for promoting long-run sustainable growth 
consistent with our objectives. As we closely monitor the transition of the economy from the 
strong pace of growth in 2018 to a pace of growth expected to be closer to its trend level this 
year, the Committee should continue to be vigilant in updating its assessment of the economic 
outlook and the stance of monetary policy amid a range of economic and financial risks. 
While it is true that headline PCE inflation has remained below our longer-run target of 
2 percent for most of the past decade, it is also true that, for most of this period, the 
unemployment rate is well above its projected longer-run level. When both of these objectives 
were complementary, the policy prescription was clear in terms of providing an accommodative 
monetary policy stance. Now that the unemployment rate has moved below its longer-run level, 
our objectives are no longer complementary. For this situation, the Committee has expressed, in 
its Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, that it will follow a balanced 
approach in promoting its objectives. 
For now, I believe that our current policy setting appropriately balances those objectives, 
along with the risks to the economy—including risk to the financial system—that could impede 
the attainment of the Committee’s goals. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the decision to maintain the current 
target range for the federal funds rate and the language in alternative B. The decision seems 
straightforward. 
There are two points I would make. First, we must avoid giving any signs that policy is 
on autopilot. I am concerned that market participants believe the Committee is locked into no 
April 30–May 1, 2019
190 of 248
 
further movements regardless of what may occur. And, given that, we must hammer home the 
point that we will remain vigilant to any risks that may emerge, either on the upside or on the 
downside, and respond as appropriate. 
Second, it is my view that we should be very wary before declaring inflation beaten. I 
understand that inflation is below our target and, as I noted in one of my very first FOMC 
meetings, has been so for many years. I think President George just said “decade”—the decade 
has been a long time. And I also recognize that inflation has recently been trending away from 
target. These are all reasons for concern about looming economic weakness or an economy 
that’s not performing as strongly as it might. 
But the tight labor market and the possible resolution of some uncertainties in trade and 
along other dimensions are signs of potential economic strength. And I must confess that I am 
leery about “this time is different” arguments regarding aggregate wage dynamics or price 
pressures. 
I agree with President Daly that u* estimates of 4.6 or 4.3 percent are too high. My 
estimate has long been at 4.1 percent, as I believe that technological changes have reduced job-
search-and-match costs in a significant way. And this would suggest the employment gap is 
smaller than might otherwise be suggested, but it is growing, and pressure is building. So I will 
be continuing to push my contacts over coming weeks for signs that the wage pressure tide is 
changing and that the Phillips curve was simply resting. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. I’m 
comfortable signaling our continued patience and waiting for a clear signal from the data. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
191 of 248
 
Just a couple of comments—I guess, principally for the minutes, as we’ve already given 
up any chance of setting a record. [Laughter] As the basis for our patience—as Presidents 
Kaplan and Bullard have mentioned—in the statement, we highlight global economic and 
financial developments, in addition to muted inflation pressures. Although I agree with them 
that global economic and financial developments have improved since March, I’m okay with 
retaining the reference at this time. That’s partly because I don’t think we’re out of the woods 
regarding the fragility of the global outlook. Even if Brexit risks have temporarily receded, the 
British will find a way to give us a reason to consider that again. But it’s also because I have a 
preference for attributing our patience to a broader set of indicators than inflation alone, given 
that I think firmly anchored expectations may have reduced the sensitivity of inflation as an 
indicator of slack in the economy. 
Given my outlook for steady growth, tightening labor market conditions, and a firming of 
inflation, I continue to think it’s likely that we will want to hike rates a bit further at some point, 
but for the time being, I am comfortable watching the data and continuing to monitor the 
outlook. But, given that view, I do think it’s premature to discuss cutting rates, in view of the 
strong data on the labor market, GDP, and relatively easy financial conditions, including a stock 
market that’s hitting record highs. 
Finally, I appreciated the staff’s update on reserve conditions as reserves continue to 
decline. Careful monitoring will allow us to get a better idea of when scarcity might arise and 
when it might be appropriate to resume growth of the balance sheet. While recent events 
certainly raise questions about it, I continue to hold the hypothesis that the true long-run 
comfortable level of reserves in the system will be much lower than the banks are currently 
indicating to us and that we are currently, therefore, positing, which would allow us to hold the 
April 30–May 1, 2019
192 of 248
 
balance sheet steady for a longer period and thus shrink relative to GDP. So that’s something 
that, again, I hope we continue to probe how to really get to that, an understanding of what the 
true long-run comfortable level of reserves is. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Over the past few months, incoming data 
have boosted the modal outlook for our economy, and downside risks associated with trade 
policy and the global outlook have diminished. Today’s ADP “print” provides another upbeat 
read. Taken on their own, these developments would suggest some further tightening might be 
appropriate to sustain the expansion. 
Balanced against this, however, are the past few inflation “prints,” which moved down 
from target after a year when we finally saw inflation reaching our target on a sustained basis. 
Against the backdrop of underlying trend inflation running persistently on the weak side of our 
target at around 1.8 percent, we need to be vigilant in order to re-anchor inflation solidly at 
2 percent. We can take some reassurance from the backdrop of rising wages and from a trimmed 
mean measure of inflation at target, which highlights that some of the underlying components 
that accounted for a material portion of the decline are likely transitory. But we will need to see 
more data before drawing any firm conclusions. 
In many ways, we find ourselves today in a situation similar to 2017. Economic activity 
is rising somewhat above potential, risk appetite is elevated, and the labor market is strong, but 
inflation is weaker than we would have expected. If we focus on our inflation objective, 
monetary policy should be accommodative. Core inflation is running below target, and, 
crucially, underlying inflation also appears to be somewhat below target. On the other hand, 
asset valuations are already stretched, and business lending shows signs of “froth.” 
April 30–May 1, 2019
193 of 248
 
In my view, this set of conditions warrants some further patience as we observe whether 
inflation developments prove transitory or more persistent. With respect to today’s decision, 
maintaining the current target range for the federal funds rate is appropriate. If, however, 
downside risks remain low, incoming data continue to lift my modal outlook, and core inflation 
looks to achieve our objective on a symmetric basis sustainably, there may be a case for modest 
further increases in the funds rate. 
At this point, however, safeguarding the gains we’ve made on employment, while 
continuing to support upward movement in underlying trend inflation, argues for maintaining the 
funds rate where we are. I believe that posture is well captured in alternative B as written. 
If, indeed, it turns out the downward movement of inflation proves to be persistent—if, 
for instance, inflation were to come in persistently closer to 1.5 percent—it will present a very 
difficult challenge to the Committee within our current long-run policy framework, which, as 
others have noted, commits us to a balanced approach. If, indeed, the Phillips curve is very flat, 
then it’s not clear that modest further tightening of resource utilization will, on its own, be 
enough to move inflation expectations smoothly back up to our target on a symmetric basis, in 
the absence of a positive shock that might enable “opportunistic reflation.” Indeed, in this case, I 
would see this as a central issue for our framework review, because it will require talking about 
this issue quite differently from how we’ve been talking about it for several years now. 
Finally, I’ll say in passing that I don’t see the 1994–95 episode as relevant to today’s 
circumstances, for the many reasons that we discussed yesterday. At least as I see it, we have 
taken out insurance against downside risks over the past few meetings. As I suggested 
yesterday, we have mechanisms that weren’t available 25 years ago that have been very 
important over the past few months, including the SEP, which dates back to 2012. You’ll recall 
April 30–May 1, 2019
194 of 248
 
that the SEP median value at the end of 2020 has moved down about 75 basis points from 
September to March. And, over that period, financial conditions eased notably, and the 10-year 
yield moved down about 50 basis points. That’s about the amount, at least in percentage terms, 
we saw the 10-year moving down in that 1994–95 episode. Our communications on the balance 
sheet are also an important difference. Finally, there was a lot going on in financial markets 
other than the kinds of things that we are looking at today, not least the Mexican tesobonos 
crisis. 
But I think it is important to emphasize that the Committee has taken important action, 
and financial conditions have eased notably. And I think where we are today is appropriate. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B. I’m generally 
comfortable with the current policy stance. As I said yesterday, I continue to believe that there’s 
still slack in the labor market, and I see no need to raise rates, given the low inflation readings. 
I expect that if growth continues and the labor market continues to tighten, we will see 
further improvement in wages and, eventually, some feed-through to prices. And at the same 
time, I’m closely watching, as others are, measures of inflation and inflation expectations. 
I’m sitting here trying to process the comments, though, of Presidents Evans and Bullard 
and others about the risk that inflation expectations are too low—the staff brought down 
underlying inflation—and the idea that cutting rates would help. I don’t think cutting rates 25 or 
50 basis points would do anything to inflation expectations, because inflation expectations are set 
based on our behavior over the past 10 years. And the fact that we normalized rates when 
inflation was consistently below our symmetric target—I mean, this cake is already baked. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
195 of 248
 
So, what would it actually take to boost inflation expectations right now? Maybe if we 
had some big upside surprise of inflation, inflation was above 2 percent, and then we didn’t 
respond, that might work. Or, if that doesn’t happen, it might not be until there’s a future 
recession, and then the Committee actually behaves as though the target is symmetric. But I 
think 1.8 percent is a “baked cake” at this point, and I think it’s going to be very difficult if we 
try to nudge that up from here, absent one of these external factors hitting us. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
MR. EVANS. I have a question. Do we get to respond? 
MR. KASHKARI. You’re welcome to respond. It was a statement. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Well, my view on that is that inflation is a monetary phenomenon. This is 
all about money—all of the factors that influence inflation and the setting of monetary policy. 
So when inflation goes up to 4 percent, it’s a monetary phenomenon even if you think that 
there’s a whole bunch of things that might have prevented you from dealing with that, like in the 
’70s. And when it’s underrunning, it’s a monetary phenomenon, too. 
So your positioning against those factors, I think, is critical. Would any one setting of the 
funds rate for a period of time have a big effect? That, of course, is debatable—and probably 
not. But it’s the longer attitude toward inflation that you demonstrate, that you care about, that I 
think is really critical to inflation expectations—at least that was the intention that I had with my 
comments. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
196 of 248
 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. 
Communicating patience and data dependency has served us well, and it makes sense to continue 
with this approach. I see a flat path of the funds rate as appropriate through year-end, given the 
outlook of a very strong labor market, above-trend growth, and inflation heading back toward 
our goal following the recent soft patch. 
Although my view of the appropriate policy rate path has not changed, the reasons for it 
have evolved. The strength of recent data on economic activity, the rebounding growth in China, 
and the reversal in the tightening of financial markets imply that near-term risks to growth have 
receded somewhat and increase my confidence that we will see moderate to solid growth. 
Stepping into this void are heightened risks of a sustained undershoot of our inflation 
target and an unmooring of inflation expectations. Given this evolution of the economic factors 
supporting our policy stance of patience, it will soon make sense to modify the wording of the 
sentence in paragraph 2 accordingly. For example, we could say, “In light of expectations of 
moderate economic growth and muted inflation, the Committee will be patient as it determines 
what future adjustments in the target range for the federal funds rate may be appropriate to 
support these outcomes.” 
It’s not certain that we’re totally in the clear yet, in terms of global economic and 
financial turmoil, so we’re not jumping the gun to make this change today. But if things 
progress as expected over the intermeeting period, I could see us doing that—so, in the June 
meeting. 
The final comment I’d like to make is, I think the discussions yesterday, today, and all of 
the way through 30 seconds ago have been really good across a range of issues and a range of 
April 30–May 1, 2019
197 of 248
 
perspectives. I mean, I would argue that the fact that arguments on both sides of the policy 
stance today have been brought up shows that we’re probably roughly in the right place, because 
you can make arguments on both sides that I think have a lot of legitimacy. 
I do think, though, that we don’t want to lose track of the connection between our rather 
theoretical discussion of the long-run composition of the balance sheet, including how to get 
there, and the discussion we’re having right now about the appropriate stance of policy. I would 
worry that if we were to get out too early with some statement—I know the decisions haven’t 
been made—about plans to shorten the duration of the balance sheet, especially to do that in a 
rather accelerated way, that is a tightening of financial conditions whether you think it’s through 
flow effects, stock effects, signaling effects, or in any way you think about this. And I think, 
given where we are with inflation and with the economy, we want to keep, in my view, the 
stance of policy where it is today. So I just think, as we move ahead through this year and 
continue to think about some of these long-run issues, that we should do so in a way that does 
not end up communicating a change in our policy stance that will make it harder for us to 
achieve our dual-mandate goals. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Let me just echo that I do agree with thoughts around 
the table, particularly what the Vice Chair just said, that the first phrase in the “patient” sentence 
could well evolve as soon as the June meeting to incorporate different factors. But I see the part 
that comes after the comma, about remaining patient, as something that, in the baseline case, 
would be durable. And it’ll depend on the evolution of things, but things like moderate growth 
and muted inflation come to mind. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
198 of 248
 
In any case, there’s a good consensus centered on our policy. Let me now ask Matt to 
make clear what the FOMC will vote on and read the roll. Following the FOMC vote, the Board 
will vote on interest rates and discount rates. Matt. 
MR. LUECKE. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The vote will be on monetary policy statement 
alternative B as it appears on page 4 of Thomas’s briefing materials. And the vote will also 
encompass the directive to the Desk as it appears on pages 6 and 7 of Thomas’s briefing 
materials. With that, I’ll call the roll. 
Chair Powell Yes 
Vice Chair Williams Yes 
Governor Bowman Yes 
Governor Brainard Yes 
President Bullard Yes 
Governor Clarida Yes 
President Evans Yes 
President George Yes 
President Rosengren Yes 
Governor Quarles Yes 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Now we have two sets of related matters under the Board’s 
jurisdiction: corresponding interest rates on reserves and discount rates. As we’ve discussed, the 
proposal is to reduce by 5 basis points the rates paid on required and excess reserves. This 
should encourage trading in the federal funds market at rates well within the target range. May I 
have a motion from a Board member to take the proposed action with respect to the interest rates 
on reserves as set forth in the first paragraph on the last page of Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. Now may I have a motion from a 
Board member to take the proposed actions with respect to the primary credit rate and the rates 
April 30–May 1, 2019
199 of 248
 
for secondary and seasonal credit as set forth in the second paragraph on the last page of 
Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Now, before we confirm the date of our next 
meeting, I’ll turn the floor over to Governor Clarida, who has a few comments on the status of 
the work of the communications subcommittee. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. Three quick points. As is our custom, the 
subcommittee met this week before the FOMC meeting. And, at this meeting, we went around 
the table and discussed and summarized the conversations that we’ve had with all of you about 
possible ways in which the SEP could be improved and refined. So that will continue. 
I should say that, in terms of the framework review, we’re in a very good place. We’ve 
had 2 Fed Listens events already, and another 10 are scheduled. So we’re 12 for 12 on that, and 
that looks like they’re not only successful events, but they, I think, are being covered in a good 
way as well. 
Of course, in June, we’ll be having the event in Chicago. President Evans and his team 
have done a fabulous job of pulling that all together. If you haven’t registered, please do that. 
Hotel rooms are scarce in Chicago in June, so please do that. 
The final thing is just to remind you that the framework review process has this public 
piece and listening piece. But then, beginning in the second half of the year, this will move into 
a traditional FOMC process, with staff briefings, agendas, and the like. So we’re on course for 
all of that. Thank you. 
April 30–May 1, 2019
200 of 248
 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you, Rich. The final agenda item is just to confirm that the 
next meeting will be Tuesday and Wednesday, June 18 and 19. That concludes the meeting. 
Thank you for a particularly useful and insightful set of discussions. I really put this high on the 
list of meetings I’ve attended. There’s a buffet lunch at 11:30. Thanks, everybody. 
END OF MEETING 
 
April 30–May 1, 2019
201 of 248

===== FOMC MEETING 2019-06-19 =====

Meet
ing of the Federal Open Market Committee 
June 18–19, 2019 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board of Governors was held in 
the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on 
Tuesday, June 18, 2019, at 10:30 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, June 19, 2019, at 9:00 a.m. 
PR
ESENT: 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
James Bullard 
Richard H. Clarida 
Charles L. Evans 
Esther L. George 
Randal K. Quarles 
Eric Rosengren 
P
atrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Michael Strine, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
T
homas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, and Mary C. Daly, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively 
Jam
es A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Michael Held, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
Thomas Laubach, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
R
ochelle M. Edge, Eric M. Engen, Anna Paulson, Christopher J. Waller, William Wascher, 
and Beth Anne Wilson,1 Associate Economists 
L
orie K. Logan, Manager pro tem,2 System Open Market Account 
A
nn E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
1 Attended Tuesday session only. 
2 In the absence of the manager, the Committee’s Rules of Organization provide that the deputy manager acts as 
manager pro tem. 

Matthew J. Eichner,3 Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board of Governors; Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors 
 
Jennifer J. Burns, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, Board of 
Governors; Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors; Trevor A. Reeve, Deputy Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Joshua Gallin, Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Brian M. Doyle, Wendy E. Dunn,
1 Joseph W. Gruber, Ellen E. Meade, and John M. Roberts, 
Special Advisers to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Shaghil Ahmed, Senior Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors 
 
Jane E. Ihrig and Don H. Kim, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors; Jeremy B. Rudd, Senior Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of 
Governors 
 
Marnie Gillis DeBoer and Min Wei, Associate Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors 
 
Christopher J. Gust,
3 Deputy Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors; Matteo Iacoviello and Paul R. Wood,1 Deputy Associate Directors, Division of 
International Finance, Board of Governors; Jeffrey D. Walker,3 Deputy Associate Director, 
Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board of Governors 
 
Burcu Duygan-Bump, Andrew Figura, Glenn Follette, Patrick E. McCabe, and Paul A. 
Smith, Assistant Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Laura 
Lipscomb,
3 Zeynep Senyuz,3 and Rebecca Zarutskie, Assistant Directors, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Steve Spurry,3 Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors 
 
Matthew Malloy,
3 Section Chief, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Penelope A. Beattie,
1 Assistant to the Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
 
 
3 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. 

Mark A. Carlson,3 Senior Economic Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
of Governors 
 
Sean Savage, Senior Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Heather A. Wiggins,
3 Group Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Maria Otoo, Principal Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; 
Lubomir Petrasek, Marcelo Rezende, and Francisco Vazquez-Grande, Principal Economists, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Patrice Robitaille,
1 Principal Economist, 
Division of International Finance, Board of Governors 
 
Donielle A. Winford, Information Management Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors 
 
Andre Anderson, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
 
David Altig and Kartik B. Athreya, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of 
Atlanta and Richmond, respectively 
 
Edward S. Knotek II, Paolo A. Pesenti, Mark L.J. Wright, and Nathaniel Wuerffel,
3 Senior 
Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, New York, Minneapolis, and New 
York, respectively 
 
Roc Armenter, Patrick Dwyer,
3 George A. Kahn, Giovanni Olivei, Rania Perry,3 Benedict 
Wensley,3 and Patricia Zobel, Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, New 
York, Kansas City, Boston, New York, New York, and New York, respectively 
 
Gara Afonso
3 and Scott Sherman,3Assistant Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York 
 
Nicolas Petrosky-Nadeau, Senior Research Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
 
Jim Dolmas, Senior Research Economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 

Transcript of the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting on 
June 18–19, 2019 
 
June 18 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. Let’s get started. This meeting, as usual, 
will be a joint meeting of the FOMC and the Board. I need a motion from a Board member to 
close the meeting. 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Before we turn to our first agenda item, I would 
like to point your attention to Thomas Laubach’s briefing material, which should be in front of 
you now.1 It has been handed out ahead of time so that you have a chance to see a proposed 
revision to one sentence in Alternative B, shown in blue. The sense of this language in blue is, 
we’re adding the words “closely monitor the implications of incoming information for the 
economic outlook and will.” And that’s the exact language I used in my Chicago speech, which 
the rest of it was a quote from. We decided to go ahead and include the whole quote. So that’s 
something to take away and be prepared to comment on later. 
Our first agenda item is a special topic discussion of a standing repo facility. As you 
know, this is an opportunity to exchange views on the topic and not a decisional discussion. 
Let’s get started with a briefing from Laura Lipscomb, of Monetary Affairs, and Nate Wuerffel, 
of the Desk. Steve Spurry, of S&R, is also here to answer questions after the briefing. Laura, 
would you like to begin? 
MS. LIPSCOMB.
2 Thank you. A number of Committee participants have 
expressed interest in examining the possible role of a repo facility as part of the 
monetary policy implementation framework. The memo that you received in advance 
of this meeting examined different parameters of a potential repo facility—
specifically, the rate set and the counterparties chosen—and discussed what effects 
 
1 The materials used by Mr. Laubach are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). 
2 The materials used by Ms. Lipscomb and Mr. Wuerffel are appended to this transcript (appendix 2). 

those design choices could have with respect to achieving different monetary policy 
objectives. The memo also discussed intersections with other Federal Reserve 
programs as well as broader policy issues. These issues cut across monetary policy 
operations, market functioning, and liquidity risk supervision, and so this work stream 
has included staff across various functions, with the memo cowritten by Supervision, 
Markets, and Monetary Affairs. 
Under the Committee’s chosen ample-reserves operating regime, the active 
management of the supply of reserves, as practiced before the crisis, should not be 
necessary to control short-term interest rates. But there is some uncertainty about the 
supply of reserves needed to maintain an ample regime. The federal funds market is 
also smaller than in the pre-crisis period, and it’s possible that unexpected shifts in 
the supply of, and demand for, reserves could put upward pressure on rates. 
Against this backdrop, the memo examined how a repo facility could provide a 
backstop against unusual spikes in the federal funds rate and other money market 
rates or provide incentives for banks to shift their portfolios of liquid assets from 
reserves to securities. This could potentially allow the Federal Reserve to operate an 
ample-reserves regime with a smaller balance sheet, all else equal. 
As Nate will point out, the design elements of the repo facility would have 
important implications for its effectiveness in achieving these different objectives. 
Put another way, the objective of the facility would dictate its design parameters, and, 
depending on the objective it was designed to achieve, the facility could look quite 
different. I’ll turn it over to Nate to discuss key design parameters in more detail. 
MR. WUERFFEL. Thanks, Laura. I’ll be referring to the handout “Standing 
Repurchase Facility.” 
In the memo that we sent before the meeting, we discuss some of the key 
parameters of a facility, how those could be adjusted, and what the resulting effects 
might be. These parameters include at what level to fix the rate of a facility, to which 
financial institutions would have access, and the eligible securities. 
By establishing a rough upper bound on the borrowing rate of firms eligible for 
the facility, the fixed-rate of a repo facility can have a strong influence on money 
market rates. The main consideration is where the rate should be set relative to IOER 
in the top of the federal funds target range. Given the normal dispersion and 
variability in money market activity, a facility that had a lower interest rate would 
dampen upward pressure on money market rates more frequently and would also have 
the highest chance of disintermediating private market activity. A facility that had a 
higher rate would have less chance of disintermediating activity and would provide a 
backstop for rates less frequently and only under more significant pressures. 
As you can see in figure 1 of the handout, money markets are made up of a 
variety of different market segments, each with its own distribution of traded rates. 
The distributions in the figure are shown relative to the interest rate on excess 

reserves, which sits at zero on the x-axis. As an example, setting the facility rate at 
the top end of the federal funds target range, currently 15 basis points above the IOER 
rate—the hash mark there—would be still below the rate a number of private-sector 
borrowers currently face on non-month-end days. And, as you can see in figure 2, on 
reporting dates like quarter-end and month-end, money market pressures are higher 
and a much larger share of trading activity regularly takes place at higher rates. 
Accordingly, setting the rate at the top end of the target range could help guard 
against unexpected pressures that might take the federal funds rate outside the range 
but would likely result in more active Desk operations and significant take-up, 
especially on month-end, quarter-end, or year-end, displacing private market activity. 
If, instead, the facility was designed to serve as a less actively used backstop, the rate 
could be set well above the target range. Then the facility might only be used on 
quarter-end or year-end, or when there is significant funding pressure in the market. 
Next, I’ll talk about the parameter of counterparty type. The effectiveness of the 
facility in providing a backstop to rates would also depend on who the counterparties 
are and on which rates you were seeking to control most directly. A repo facility 
operated with primary dealers is likely to be quite effective in dampening pressures in 
the secured repo markets. The facility would tend to truncate the distribution of repo 
rates seen in blue in figures 1 and 2, because dealers are the main borrowers and 
intermediaries in these markets. But the federal funds market, the distribution in red, 
is an unsecured market in which the main borrowers are banks. Some arbitrage does 
occur across secured and unsecured markets, but, to guard better against unexpected 
pressures on the federal funds rate, the facility would likely need to be directly 
accessible by banks. 
Having a repo facility with banks as counterparties may also influence the 
aggregate amount of reserves demanded by banks. At recent meetings, the staff have 
discussed estimates of bank demand for reserves, and how, in aggregate, it is much 
higher than it was pre-crisis. We gather information on the drivers of banks’ demand 
for reserves through surveys like the Senior Financial Officer Survey and from 
outreach to market participants. Banks tell us that their immediate liquidity needs 
are a major factor in their demand for reserves. And the largest holders of reserves 
report that managing liquidity in stress scenarios, including as a part of resolution 
planning, is an important factor in their demand to hold reserves. 
It’s important to note that no specific regulation or supervisory program 
prescribes that firms hold a certain amount of reserves in their liquidity buffers. 
Indeed, as you can see in figure 3, an examination of the composition of large bank 
portfolios of high quality liquid assets (HQLA) and the share of their holdings in 
reserves shows heterogeneous approaches. These findings suggest that the 
approaches being taken are quite firm-specific. Our coauthor, Steve Spurry, can 
provide additional details if there are questions. 
That said, a facility that allows banks to rapidly monetize their holdings of 
Treasury securities or other HQLA might create an incentive for them to hold fewer 
reserves and larger holdings of other types of HQLA in order to meet their liquidity 

risk management or resolution needs. This effect would likely be most powerful for 
the largest reserve holders, and, as you can see in figure 3, the eight global 
systemically important banks, or G-SIBs, in the United States hold over $800 billion 
in reserves. We also know from the Senior Financial Officer Survey that, with just an 
illustrative sample of 75 banks, we could have counterparties to an operation that 
currently account for over 80 percent of estimated reserve demand. 
Adding less than 100 counterparties would be operationally feasible using the 
Desk’s existing repo infrastructure but may subject the Federal Reserve to some 
criticism by other banks who desired access. As a point of contrast: The discount 
window has much wider availability, with over 2000 depository institutions currently 
pledging collateral. If policymakers wished to have a repo facility broadly available, 
a different trading infrastructure for the Desk would be necessary. 
Lastly, let me mention eligible securities. A repo facility could accept only 
Treasury securities, or it could be broadened to include a broader range of the 
securities in which the Fed is allowed to conduct open market operations, or OMOs. 
In general, accepting a broader range of eligible securities would likely be a desirable 
feature to many counterparties, and repo operations before the crisis included other 
OMO-eligible securities like agency MBS. For a bank-focused facility, the inclusion 
of a broader range of securities, such as agency MBS, might cause them to shift their 
liquidity portfolio composition toward these higher yielding assets and reduce their 
demand for reserves. But, as Laura will talk about in a moment, whether a facility 
could reduce the aggregate demand of reserves by banks likely depends on the 
Federal Reserve’s willingness to make a credible commitment to banks that the 
facility would be available to them in the times when it would be most needed for 
liquidity risk-management purposes, including periods of firm-specific stress. 
MS. LIPSCOMB. Thanks, Nate. Nate has described how a standing, fixed-rate 
repo facility could support different objectives, depending on some key parameter 
choices. I will conclude our presentation by highlighting a couple of related policy 
considerations. 
First, operations conducted through a standing, fixed-rate repo facility would be 
economically similar to the lending that the Federal Reserve makes to banks through 
the discount window, raising a number of related policy issues and, in particular, the 
ability to lend to firms in stress. As you know, a Reserve Bank may lend to a 
depository institution if the loan is “secured to the satisfaction” of the lending 
Reserve Bank, even if that institution is not in sound financial condition. Indeed, the 
secondary credit program is designed to deal with troubled banks. However, there are 
statutory limitations on the Federal Reserve’s lending to undercapitalized and 
critically undercapitalized institutions. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC have 
provided guidance to G-SIBs on the limited and specific circumstances in which they 
can assume access to Federal Reserve credit in their resolution plans, consistent with 
statutes. The net result is that the largest firms are generally not factoring in access to 
Fed credit as part of their liquidity management in stress scenarios, and this is one 
possible contributor to reserve demand. 

The extent to which a repo facility might reduce this demand is likely dependent 
upon the degree to which firms perceive that they have a commitment that they can 
access the facility when they are in stress. The New York Fed’s counterparty policy 
regarding open market operations does not contemplate transacting with firms in such 
conditions, and, even when receiving HQLA against reserves in the transaction, the 
Federal Reserve could face counterparty exposures and complications were a firm to 
face insolvency. There might also be concerns about the Fed stepping ahead of other 
creditors and the FDIC by taking the bank’s best collateral as its situation 
deteriorated. Further, if the facility were used by a large firm in stress, the Federal 
Reserve may come under criticism for the appearance of bailing out a large bank or 
dealer. 
Our memo did not include an estimate of how much a repo facility might reduce 
aggregate demand for reserves. While the direction is clear, the size of reallocation 
away from reserves is highly uncertain and would depend on factors such as 
counterparty limits, breadth of access, the willingness of firms to use intraday credit, 
the relative returns on eligible securities versus reserves, and, as mentioned, the 
reliability of access. Moreover, as Nate mentioned, referring to figure 3, HQLA 
management is highly firm specific, and individual bank responses to the availability 
of a repo facility would also likely be unique. With some sense of the scope and 
terms of a repo facility offering, conversations with firms, as well as additional 
analysis of firm-specific data, would likely provide greater information about how a 
facility might change behavior. 
Finally, I will conclude by noting that it is possible that any type of operation that 
offers “funding” from a central bank at a rate above market rates could suffer from 
stigma and thus become less effective. We provide some options in the memo to 
potentially adjust the terms of lending under discount window authority, and also note 
a System-wide improvement initiative, which could mitigate discount window 
stigma-related issues and perhaps achieve some of the objectives envisioned for a 
repo facility. In the case of a repo facility, price may help combat stigma. If the rate 
was set to a relatively low level such that it is more frequently “in the money,” a repo 
facility is more likely to be used regularly and thus more useful in both normal and 
stressed conditions. But more aggressive pricing of a repo facility also means greater 
risk of disintermediation of private market participants, as Nate discussed. It could 
also mean a greater risk of stigmatizing the discount window. And we could see 
greater ongoing usage by counterparties that face the highest borrowing costs. More 
broadly, facility parameters would have important implications for take-up, and the 
resulting size and volatility of the Federal Reserve balance sheet. 
Thank you. Nate, Steve, and I are happy to take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks very much. Any questions for Laura, Nate, or Steve? 
President Kaplan. 

MR. KAPLAN. I have one, which is probably unduly basic, but I want to make sure I 
understand. A framework in which there were tighter credit controls here, and in which it was 
not intended to be as available during periods of stress—those banks would then need to use the 
discount window, in that scenario. Why wouldn’t that be a framework? Give me your analysis 
of that—the issues associated with that approach. 
MS. LIPSCOMB. I think what we are pointing out is that if there was a desire to 
encourage banks to reduce their reserve demand through the availability of a repo facility, some 
of the biggest banks explained to us that they are holding reserves as part of their liquidity risk-
management including in stress scenarios. And those are really chunky amounts of reserves. So 
if it’s a stress scenario that is the binding constraint of reserve demand, the facility needs to be 
available in a large size in that scenario. 
We also pointed out that they are currently not seeing the discount window as a key part 
of risk management in liquidity stress scenarios. So the discount window is currently not seen as 
an alternative. If the discount window is seen as fully available in those scenarios, you could 
expect that you would have less reserve demand, all else being equal. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Just to follow up on that, why would it not be available? I mean, in a 
stress environment—we just went through it, I guess, in the last crisis—it was available in size. 
MS. LIPSCOMB. Yes. We have tried to provide some clarity to Global Systemically 
Important Banks (G-SIBs) about the limited and specific instances in which they can count on 
the discount window and Federal Reserve credit—which would include daylight credit, and 
some frequently asked questions (FAQs). But they are very specific instances, and we had to do 
that to be consistent with the Dodd-Frank Act, which limits the ability of the banks to rely on 

some sort of sovereign backstop when in stress. So, basically, for resolution planning purposes, 
the degree to which banks can assume access is highly specific. And the net result of that is that 
banks are not including the discount window as a key part of their plans. 
MR. BULLARD. But strategically, for the Committee, we know what we’re going to do 
in a crisis. So it seems like that should be part of the equation—that the discount window would 
be open and, not only that, probably the term auction facility (TAF). 
MR. WUERFFEL. One of the things that—whether it was the term auction facility or the 
discount window, if you wanted to create an incentive for banks to reduce their demand for 
reserves, you probably would have to communicate publicly the Federal Reserve’s readiness for 
them to change their resolution plans. It’s really more about the resolution planning and their 
liquidity risk-management planning than it is in the actual event. So to change the demand now, 
you’d have to change the way that they go about their planning. 
MR. BULLARD. Well, I’d hate to make a decision based on the idea that we’re not 
going to lend at the discount window during a crisis. We are going to lend at the discount 
window during a crisis, and we are going to reopen the TAF, presumably, during a crisis. So if 
we need to communicate that further, we should probably do it. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The nature of the presentation and some 
comments that have already been made about resolution planning reminds me—entering this 
discussion, I’m a little uncomfortable or unsure as to exactly what we’re talking about here or 
what issue we’re trying to address. And so, from a monetary policy standpoint, I understand the 
questions about the size of the balance sheet and rate control and how we achieve our monetary 
policy objectives. The topic here wanders into financial stability issues, in not just a tangential 

way, when you start talking about resolution planning. That’s not a topic that has been discussed 
really at this table at the FOMC level, so I’m unsure as to how much weight to give to that or to 
think about it. My own take on some of the financial crisis issues was that there wasn’t enough 
risk pricing going on in a whole bunch of asset categories, so there was too much risk being 
taken on. Resolution planning was supposed to incentivize the largest banks to plan more 
carefully about that. Choices were made. 
Now we’re thinking about entering into that and offering opportunities to provide 
liquidity at a moment at which—I don’t know how that alters how they think about risk pricing 
and whether or not it’s more prudent or whether it encourages more risk-taking activity. So I 
guess any more additional commentary about the relative balance here or how to think about 
this—but that’s my general level of sort of confusion about the entire topic. It seems kind of 
important to me. 
CHAIR POWELL. Let me say that I think this exercise is one that’s as much about 
raising questions as trying to get the answers. That’s exactly the kind of feedback we need—
we’re going to want to come back to this issue after people surface those kinds of questions. 
President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. You mentioned in the memo and in your presentation the risk of 
disintermediation in the private sector. I’m confused by that, because, in my mind—this is 
simplified, but just think about Treasury-only facilities for a moment. One option, as I think 
about it, is a bigger balance sheet, so the Federal Reserve owns more Treasury securities, no 
facility. Another option is a smaller balance sheet but a facility being provided. Why aren’t 
those two equivalent in terms of disintermediation? 

MR. WUERFFEL. I think, in the case in which you’re using a repo facility, you would 
be altering the traded market. Depending on where you set the rate, you would be altering the 
markets that are trading in the private sector—the rates of the other traders in the private sector. 
MR. KASHKARI. But if we step in instead to have a bigger balance sheet and we’re 
buying T reasury securit ies from the private markets, aren’t we having a similar effect on the 
pricing and the liquidity in the private markets, whether it’s through—I just don’t understand why 
these two are different. 
MR. WUERFFEL. I think that outright purchases through the balance sheet at the time 
that you’re conducting the purchases and the ongoing term premia effects of those certainly do 
have an influence on financial markets. I think a repo facility would also have an influence on 
financial markets, but on a more active day-to-day basis. I’m not sure that I would call the 
balance sheet “disintermediation,” but I think you’re making a good point about how either type 
of action involves an open market operation, and then there are financial market effects 
associated with those actions. And that’s fair. 
MR. KASHKARI. Okay. But I guess it isn’t clear to me that one has a bigger effect than 
the other. Look, maybe I am oversimplifying it: a bigger balance sheet and no facility, or a 
somewhat smaller balance sheet with a facility. Again, this is Treasury-only, to keep it simple. 
It is not obvious that one is more disintermediating than the other is. 
MR. WUERFFEL. I think if you set the facility rate in a repo facility very, very low, 
what you could end up doing is all of the private market transactions could instead be effectively 
intermediated by the Federal Reserve through those open market operations, so I think that 
would be the risk. However, it really would depend on where you would set the rate. 

MS. LOGAN. I think the effects are slightly different. I agree with you, when you—
once we—if we were to purchase the securities, we would then make them available for lending 
in securities lending. If we were involved in their repo market, it would have some effect on 
disintermediating in the repo market specifically. However, I agree that, in aggregate, they look 
somewhat similar. I think the specific effects in various aspects of the financial markets are a bit 
different. 
MR. KASHKARI. Okay. Thank you. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Can I do a two-hander? 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor—sorry. Go ahead. A two-hander from John. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I do think there is a difference here, and I think the chart 
about the distribution of rates of trades is actually highly relevant here. When you think about 
the general size of our balance sheet, that is a quantity out there. It obviously affects financial 
conditions in the way you have said. However, if we go in there with a ceiling facility, as Nate 
said, that is in the money, you know. It is low enough. We are actually setting an interest rate in 
the market, in effect. So it is a different—I think that gets at the disintermediation, that those 
trades that would be happening well above the ceiling rate we put in—those would be then 
coming through us. Therefore, I think there is a difference between how we set a quantity in the 
balance sheet and having us setting a rate itself. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Brainerd. 
MS. BRAINARD. In the case in which we do not make a clear ex ante commitment that 
this will be available to large firms in moments of stress because of 13(3) or other concerns, what 
kind of a reduction in desired reserves are we talking about? Is it $50 billion, $100 billion, $½ 

trillion, $1 trillion? I’m just trying to get a sense of how much balance sheet this really frees up 
if we don’t want to cross some of those important lines. 
MS. LIPSCOMB. I think that’s a great question. We would have to do a substantial 
amount of additional work to figure that out. In the survey, when we asked banks to rank their 
primary sources of demand for reserves, they indicated that intraday payments is a key 
component of that. I think we need to, possibly in the next survey, dig into that a little bit more 
and understand if some of that demand could be met by the availability of a repo to, say, cure an 
intraday overdraft by end of day. You could exchange your Treasury securities for reserves and 
not have to worry about late-day funding markets that are rather anemic right now. That could 
be creating some precautionary demand for reserve balances. It’s really hard getting firm 
answers when you ask banks to disentangle what component of their demand for reserves is 
related to that. But I think we can do further work and get some better answers. 
MR. WUERFFEL. I would just add to Laura’s point—the parameters that you had set 
could have an effect on how banks would think about their own reserve demand. So, for 
example, late-in-the-day availability could be one consideration. But the other parameters, like 
how available it is in stress, could also be some of the other features that would be important—
the eligibility of collateral. 
So each one of those factors could then determine how the banks would think about their 
demand for reserves in that scenario—which is one of the reasons why we didn’t include an 
estimate in the memo—because, in the absence of knowing those parameters and being able to 
talk to the banks about, if it had these different features, then the banks might be able to give us a 
better sense of that. 

MS. LIPSCOMB. Maybe to add—maximum counterparty size relative to bank’s 
estimate of their deposit volatility would be relevant for how much they could shed in reserves. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Could you talk a little bit more about the financial stability 
implications of this? The two that crossed my mind were, one, to the extent that the primary 
dealers have access, they do not have access to the discount window. They were some of the 
largest borrowers during the crisis. They still have some of the biggest needs for liquidity, and 
we’d need to define their access to the discount window with exigent circumstances. I thought 
the Bank of England created a facility like this at least in part from a financial stability 
standpoint. And, two, when we’re thinking about financial stability at a time of duress, to the 
extent that only MBS and Treasury securities are available through this facility, it starts 
disadvantaging other assets that aren’t nearly as liquid. 
So those were the two financial stability elements that were most obvious to me, but I 
was wondering whether the staff had thought of others. Charlie Plosser and Jeff Lacker aren’t 
around this table anymore. But there used to be a lot of concern about extending the discount 
window to nondepository institutions. 
So, implicitly, we’re taking a step that is allowing access to liquidity of organizations that 
are not depositories. That doesn’t bother me, but it does seem like it should be something that 
we talk openly about—about how comfortable we are with that kind of access. So any 
comments you have on financial stability would be of interest. 
MR. WUERFFEL. I think the issue you raise about nondepository institutions is 
certainly a consideration in the counterparty eligibility framework. The financial stability 
benefits or implications here—I think you highlight a good one, which is, at a time of significant 

stress in the money markets, you might expect counterparties to step back from each other, in 
which case the availability of Federal Reserve funding could be an attractive alternative to 
market participants in stress. So you could imagine, for example, lenders in money markets 
stepping away from primary dealers, and so then they would invest their cash in the Federal 
Reserve’s overnight reverse repo facility. And, in turn, if a dealer were facing the need for 
financing its positions or for funding, it might then turn to a repo facility on the top end of a 
range for that kind of funding. So, in that case, it could provide some financial stability 
enhancement in that kind of funding market scenario. 
MR. SPURRY. I think the Bank of England makes that distinction actually more on 
collateral than on counterparty: It is including dealers in its monetary policy facilities but then 
only taking Treasuries of very high quality. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Yes. I’m struck that almost half of the reserves are held by four banks. 
And, to the extent that one of our objectives is to reduce that, it just feels to me that, in whatever 
process is appropriate, doing some deep structured interviews with those four banks about which 
terms might or might not be relevant to reducing their balance sheet of reserves, and then we can 
make the call whether we’re comfortable with those sets of elements. But it feels like a very 
targeted problem here, if your focus is on reducing the level of reserves. 
MR. WUERFELL. We have had a number of structured dialogues with a whole range of 
banks—not about the repo facility specifically, but many of them raised the idea of a repo 
facility with us. I think in order to have the kind of parameter discussions that we’re talking 
about, that would probably require us to be more explicit in public about our intention to go out 
and talk to these institutions about it. 

MR. SPURRY. It is probably worth noting also, the point of your comment was more 
stark last year. And one of the banks that you’re talking about actually did a very large rotation 
out of reserves and into Treasuries, so this chart looked even more stark last year. 
MR. BARKIN. Yes. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I just want to return to this idea of disintermediation, because I thought 
what Vice Chair Williams said was what I had in mind. But I had one other thing in mind, and I 
want to make sure I am right about it. I thought that one of the concerns about disintermediation 
is that, if we are the provider, then institutions lose their muscles for working with each other and 
other marketplaces. And we found historically, with the funds rate, those are hard to replace. 
They take some time. Is that what you have in mind as well, so that you’re actually interrupting 
the relationships or the technology they have in place to do this? 
MS. DALY. Okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? [No response.] Okay. Let’s then begin the 
opportunity to comment, beginning with Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The memo, the presentations, and 
the ensuing discussion have been very helpful in laying out some of the issues, clarifying some 
of the goals and thinking about how these different approaches could help achieve some of these 
goals, but they also highlighted a number of pretty significant challenges to achieving success. 
I’ve just got a few thoughts and observations to add to this, given that, I think, a lot of the 
details are in the memos and maybe require further thought. First, let me start with interest rate 
control as a distinct goal. It’s not clear that this facility is needed or will be needed, given the 
decisions the Committee has made. The Committee has strongly endorsed a floor system 

consisting of ample reserves. In this system, normal fluctuations in the demand for reserves 
could be absorbed by the supply of reserves, leaving relatively little imprint on the funds rate or 
financial conditions more generally. And, consistent with this regime, we need to make sure that 
we are regularly supplying ample reserves, as our communications of balance sheet 
normalization make clear. We need to be consistent in communicating to the public that some 
short-run fluctuations in the funds rate are not a concern in terms of our policy framework. 
Indeed, the target range approach that we have adopted is a help in this regard—we’ve 
made it clear that we’re comfortable with movements in the funds rate within the range. That 
said, there will be some unusual days, like at month-end, when the funds rate may momentarily 
breach the range to the upside, But, as long as those don’t persist too long, I don’t see this as 
interfering with interest rate control or our policy communications. 
Now, second, I’m not convinced that a broad-based repo facility that included a large 
number of banks would be effective at significantly reducing the amount of reserves that banks 
wanted to hold, nor do I view this as a particularly worthwhile goal on its own. As noted in the 
memo and as the presentations highlighted—and some of the discussions dug into this—banks 
are concerned that such a facility may not be available to borrowers under stress, and that 
undermines, of course, their willingness to rely on this as a backstop source of liquidity. 
In this regard, it is important to recall that we already have well-developed discount 
window policies that treat banks differently, depending on their condition. I cannot imagine that 
we could make an unconditional commitment to provide access to a repo facility to banks or 
institutions regardless of the state of the world or the institutions’ conditions. I mean, this is 
already clear not only in the case of the discount window, but also in terms of our counterparty 
policies with open market operations. 

We really have to think hard about whether this is, as we typically say, “time consistent.” 
Is this a promise that we would actually be willing, or would it be appropriate, to carry out? 
And, again, these people we’re talking about, these four or eight banks, will they understand 
this? And they are going to realize, from a point of view of a stress or a resolution kind of 
situation, that they are going to not be able to rely on a repo facility like this. 
I also don’t see the case for trying to drive reserves down to the smallest level possible 
through the creation of a repo facility. Even if it would work—which I doubt, as I mentioned 
before—at the margin, there are financial stability benefits associated with large banks holding 
reserves rather than marketable securities. Although our regulations allow institutions to make 
their own decisions regarding the composition of HQLA, the existence of a financial stability 
externality argues against us actively seeking ways for banks to economize on reserves. Thank 
you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am supportive of doing further work for a 
standing facility, but it might be worth being clearer about the problem we are trying to solve, as 
suggested by President Evans and President Williams. Decisions on how high a ceiling to 
impose, who should participate in the facility, and how extensively we want it used will depend 
on what we hope the facility will achieve. 
I thought of five different goals that this could be trying to achieve, and I think it does 
make a difference which ones of these we’re focused on. One goal of the facility could be rate 
control—specifically, helping to enforce a ceiling on the funds rate by using a facility that might 
not suffer from the stigma attached to discount window borrowing. A second goal could be to 
reduce the demand for reserves by providing a highly liquid and anonymous source of funds in 

the event of spikes in the repo rate. A third goal could be to move to a stronger corridor system 
for the repo rate so that the repo rate can, over time, supplant the federal funds rate as our focus 
in setting policy. A fourth and related goal could be to facilitate the migration to the secured 
overnight funding rate (SOFR) by making repo rates more controllable and more a focus of 
policy. A fifth goal could be to extend funding to broker-dealers that were a source of financial 
instability during the crisis. Which problems we are primarily seeking to solve might provide 
more clarity about the design of the facility. 
My own view is that this facility should be focused on keeping the repo rate in a corridor 
that will eventually become the focus of monetary policy, supplanting the federal funds rate that 
has limited use in an abundant-reserves regime. My secondary goal would be to enhance 
financial stability. This second goal is more controversial. Some would argue that, by providing 
broker-dealers a new source of liquidity, we would be implicitly increasing the safety net to 
cover nondepository institutions. 
My own view is that broker-dealers are critical to financial markets, and that their less 
stable funding model makes them a significant source of potential financial instability. Many of 
the facilities created during the financial crisis were intended to resolve the funding problem of 
broker-dealers, but already having a standing facility in place would have avoided starting up 
emergency facilities under tight time constraints. Thus, an ideal facility would broaden access as 
a strength, not a flaw. While the new facility would provide broker-dealers a vehicle for 
financing only those lowest-risk securities that are eligible for open market operations, the 
facility would not allow them to finance the riskier loans and securities that banks would fund 
through the higher cost discount window. 

I have two potential concerns. Ideally, financial institutions of different sizes should be 
able to get funding on the same terms if they have identical collateral. In that regard, we should 
ensure that introducing the facility does not inadvertently raise issues of competitive fairness. 
Allowing primary dealers access to funding on terms that small banks cannot get through the 
primary credit facility would be problematic. If we provide access to the repo facility only to 
primary dealers and large banks, perhaps because the Desk does not have the capacity to 
facilitate repo transactions with all banks and dealers, we might consider changes to primary 
credit that would allow smaller banks financing on the same terms for the same collateral offered 
to the primary dealers. In essence, Reserve Bank discount windows would engage in repo 
transactions with small banks, involving liquid Treasury securities, and perhaps, if we so chose, 
government-guaranteed MBS at the same terms offered through the new repo facility. 
A second possible concern relates to financial stability. During times of stress, the access 
to short-term funding for Treasury securities and MBS at a Fed facility will, on the margin, make 
bank loans that would not be fundable at the facility less attractive. So, although it would make 
financial institutions better able to liquefy positions, it would come at the cost of reducing banks’ 
lending, because loans would not be as easily liquefied during a period of financial instability. 
On balance, these potential costs do not seem to upset the actual benefits. However, the 
devil is in the details of such a plan. So I would encourage us to design a standing facility with 
much more clarity of purpose. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d like to thank the staff for a detailed and, I 
think, very thought-provoking memo regarding this proposed facility. I do think it’s a good 
starting point for discussions, and we will continue those discussions concerning a potentially 

important tool that can aid us in achieving reliable control of short-term interest rates and, as the 
memo says, likely reduce the demand for reserves. 
Obviously, interest rate control is essential for the conduct of credible monetary policy. 
So, in thinking about the features and the goals, as President Rosengren laid out, that were 
brought up in the memo, I believe we should think of this facility primarily as aiding in interest 
rate control in an environment in which financial markets are functioning normally or close to 
normally. The facility’s design should not be governed by crisis scenarios, although it would 
certainly be used aggressively in crisis situations. In a crisis, as President Bullard noted earlier, 
we will be able to augment the facility with other innovative solutions that are outside of our 
normal toolkit. 
In that regard, the securities eligible for open market operations are appropriate. Using 
only eligible securities will help distinguish the facility from the discount window and reduce the 
chance that it’s associated with any stigma. I do, however, share some of the concerns raised in 
the memo. One is that allowing a counterparty to conduct extremely large repo transactions 
could act as a subsidy to a financially troubled institution and could be perceived as a financial 
bailout, subjecting the Federal Reserve to political criticism. However, we want institutions to 
feel comfortable with relying on a facility for liquidity needs. So it would be useful to consider 
safeguards that prevent abuse but, at the same time, do not impair regular use. 
The memo raises a couple of other issues that are central to the facility’s design. One is 
the selection of counterparties, and the other is the rate at which repos will be offered. It will 
probably be unwieldy to include all primary dealers and depository institutions. But, at the same 
time, we should try, as others have noted, to avoid imposing competitive disadvantages on any 
particular bank. The issue of access is certainly one that will require much more discussion. 

Now, the appropriate setting of the interest rate of the facility also needs careful thought, 
as it clearly is a key design parameter. With the facility in place, we will be trading off robust 
interest rate control with protecting the efficiency and depth of the broader repo market. Setting 
the rate too low could result in significant disintermediation of the private market, and setting it 
too high would render the facility ineffective. Thus, there is a careful balancing act that must be 
accomplished if we are to have an effective facility that does not impair financial market 
functioning. So, here, one idea is that an aggregate cap might serve a useful purpose in 
protecting financial markets from the possibility of significant disintermediation while 
simultaneously providing banks under idiosyncratic stress a reliable source of liquidity. I think 
that these latter two issues clearly deserve closer scrutiny. But, again, I found the memo quite 
helpful in clarifying my thinking in raising a number of carefully considered topics. Thanks 
again for the memo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Board staff for 
their excellent summary and assessment of how a standing fixed-rate repo facility might work 
and to what end. I am sympathetic to the idea of adding a standing repo facility to our set of 
tools. I would like to emphasize that what is being proposed here is not experimental. Many 
central banks today, including the ECB, successfully employ standing facilities in seeking to 
achieve their mandates. In short, by doing this, we could meet an international standard. 
My preference is for a facility that includes at least banks and primary dealers as 
counterparties. The set of eligible securities should, at the very least, include U.S. Treasury 
securities and agency debt. The applicable haircuts in interest rates should be sufficiently 
attractive to distinguish the facility from a discount window. 

The primary benefits from a facility would, in my view, be twofold. First, the facility 
would provide superior interest rate control—in particular, a way to establish a reliable soft 
ceiling on money market rates. Second, it may encourage a reduction in the demand for 
reserves, in turn permitting us to achieve our goal of a minimally ample level of reserves needed 
to operate our desired floor system effectively and efficiently. If that’s not our goal, we should 
restate that. This would be consistent with the Committee’s normalization principles and plans 
that we have put out. Moreover, the establishment of the facility would likely eliminate the need 
to continuously estimate the minimally ample level of reserves over time through bank surveys 
or other methods. Systematic use of the facility would, by itself, provide the market signal that 
reserves may no longer be ample. Under the parameter settings similar to those used by the 
ECB, the facility is unlikely to be used very much. One possible exception to this could be 
during a stress event. In such an event, it seems preferable to me to maintain interest rate control 
at the expense of balance sheet size, especially as the balance sheet would potentially be much 
lower to begin with if the facility is in place. 
There are a host of legal issues to be worked out in terms of how the facility may be used 
in times of distress. If the set of eligible securities is limited to U.S. Treasury and agency debt, 
the risk may be minimal and, hence, legally permissible. Banks and their supervisors should 
be encouraged to think about how resolution planning might be affected under the assumption 
that a standing repo facility will be available. If a standing repo facility renders Treasury and 
agency debt as cash equivalents, then such securities are likely to substitute for reserves in 
resolution plans. 
We would like to encourage the staff to continue to develop plans for a facility that could 
potentially reduce reserve demand and deliver superior interest rate control. Also, I think it 

would be useful for the next report to include the experience of major central banks around the 
world and to make some recommendations for preferred parameter settings. Thank you, 
Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. First, I also want to thank the staff for the memo. 
At earlier meetings, several of us have suggested it would be useful to discuss the possibility of a 
standing repo facility, and I thought the staff memo was very helpful in laying out some of the 
considerations. 
Of course, as we have been discussing, such a facility has the potential of putting a soft 
ceiling on market interest rates, money market rates, thereby perhaps eliminating or at least 
limiting spikes in the funds rate. It might also lower banks’ demand for reserves, since they 
would be able to pledge eligible securities for reserves when needed if the Fed is a counterparty. 
This means the average level of reserves that the Federal Reserve would need to supply in its 
ample-reserves regime could be lower. But these potential benefits are offset by some potential 
costs, as everything in the world seems to be. 
The Fed would be playing a larger role in money markets in normal times, thereby 
crowding out private-sector intermediation in the repo market, and our balance sheet would 
become more volatile. The take-up at the facility could become quite large at times of market 
stress or when a large firm faces a large liquidity need. Now, how one weighs the benefits 
versus the costs depends partly on the design choices of the facility, including pricing, the set of 
eligible counterparties, and eligible collateral. And, as the memo and the presentation today 
point out, if you set the rate too high, then the facility won’t be used very much. This would 
limit our “footprint” in the market but also limit the facility’s ability to put a ceiling on rates, 

making it a facility of last resort, along lines similar to the discount window. If you set the rate 
too low, then the Federal Reserve would be crowding out private-sector intermediation. 
The set of counterparties also affects this cost–benefit analysis. If the purpose is to more 
directly influence banks’ demand for reserves, then a set of counterparties has to be expanded 
from primary dealers to include banks. But opening a facility to all banks might be hard to 
administer. A middle ground would be to consider eligibility criteria similar to those used for 
the reverse repo facility. This would mean limiting the banks to those of a certain asset size or 
level of reserves. In the case of reverse repos, it is banks with assets of $30 billion or more and 
reserves of $10 billion or more. And, as President Rosengren said, we might want to consider 
other changes that, if we limited the repo facility, it would help alleviate the issue about the small 
banks not having access. 
As a starting point, we might consider whether it would make sense to offer the facility to 
the same set of firms already available for reverse repos, but that’s something to think through. 
If there are concerns about letting the firms participate whose financial health is harder to assess 
because we don’t supervise them, one could have a narrow set of eligibility criteria so that the 
counterparty poses little credit risk exposure to the Federal Reserve—something that the memo 
suggests is a criteria in the Desk counterparty policy for open market operations. A reasonable 
place to start would be Treasury securities and perhaps Ginnie Maes, which count as level 1 
high-quality liquid assets under the Basel III liquidity rules. 
So I find the idea of a standing repo facility worth further study. There are three issues 
that I’d like to see more work on. As we think about the potential benefits of a facility, it would 
be useful to understand more about what’s causing the upward pressure on the funds rate and 
high demand for reserves. As Vice Chair Williams said, some of the volatility in the funds 

rate—for example, at quarter-end—should be expected and shouldn’t be viewed as lack of 
interest rate control. Regarding reserves demand, banks report liquidity management as a 
significant factor driving their demand, and some banks say resolution planning is a factor as 
well, even though the guidance doesn’t suggest that reserves are preferred to Treasury securities. 
It might be that, with more experience and clarification of the regulatory requirements, banks 
would get more comfortable holding a lower level of reserves, which would lower one of the 
benefits of a standing repo facility. So it would be good to have more insight on this. 
I would also like to better understand the tradeoff between having a Fed balance sheet 
that is smaller, on average, but subject to size spikes when the repo facility take-up is large, 
versus a larger but less volatile balance sheet we’d have without the facility. A rough back-of-
the-envelope calculation suggests the average balance sheet size could be smaller by up to 
$500 billion. So this estimate is a combination of the possibility we could lower the $200 billion 
buffer the Committee has chosen to handle reserve demand uncertainty. And the estimate by 
Dave Andolfatto and Jane Ihrig published by the St. Louis Fed that a repo facility might reduce 
reserve demand by $175 billion to $300 billion. Would the Committee view a reduction of $500 
billion as a meaningful increase in the scope for doing QE in the future? Can the staff get more 
precise estimates, in order to help inform the Committee? 
Finally, it would be good to think through how we would handle market stresses that 
might last several days leading to very high take-up. We would be serving as a counterparty 
when markets aren’t functioning well, which is one of our roles. On the other hand, this might 
have moral hazard and other unintended consequences that we should think through. If the 
benefits of the facility depend on its being available when a firm faces stress, we should know 
more about what this commitment would mean in various scenarios. And, as President Bullard 

mentioned, we might look at the experiences of other central banks that operate corridor systems 
for insights. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the Board staff memo and its 
role in facilitating this discussion. For me and for my team, I think it helped us understand that 
this is a much more complicated issue than maybe even we had realized, for a lot of the reasons 
that have just been given. And I’m supportive of doing more work—understanding, though, that 
we may not come to a resolution that’s acceptable, in light of these various goals. 
Having said that, I would just make a few comments. Number one, I like the idea of 
doing more work on this, obviously, as a number of you said, because if it gave banks the ability 
to readily and quickly monetize their nonreserve high-quality liquid assets and reduce the 
regulatory-associated demand for large quantities of excess reserves, I was hopeful this would 
allow us to implement our ample-reserves regime with a lower quantity of reserves, lower 
balance sheet size. I thought this could be a useful addition to our implementation framework in 
which we have a floor, implied by the ON RRP facility, as well as a ceiling, and which would 
help us ensure that the federal funds rate remained within the target range. And, in order to give 
the FOMC more direct influence on the interest rate that is expressed by our policy stance, I was 
certainly in favor of having counterparties that include both banks and primary dealers. And, 
certainly, in thinking about the rate, my view was that the rate should be closer to the upper end 
of the federal funds target range for the reasons that you all said, not to disintermediate market 
participants. I, on the other hand, don’t want it to be above the upper end, because I didn’t want 
it to create a stigma associated with the use of this facility. 

Having said all of that, where we struggled in my conversations with my team in Dallas 
was on these issues of a stress scenario and also our counterparty risk. We had talked about the 
fact that, if we were going to do this, I would have thought we needed a good process for 
continually updating our bank and primary dealer counterparts and really pruning this 
counterparty list, certainly in the event of not just a stress scenario but when there are actual 
banks that are having credit issues. But I understand, especially when you talked about the 
administration today and some of the issues associated with having too many counterparties, and 
then we get into these financial stability issues. 
I must admit that I will leave this discussion today with more questions than answers and 
that I am more uncertain, as I leave here, that we are going to figure out a way to do this than 
when I came in. But I think that’s great, and I think this kind of memo and this kind of 
discussion is very, very useful from that point of view. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. Thank you to the staff for another 
informative and useful memo on an important topic. The memo outlines considerations 
associated with operating a standing fixed-rate repo facility and really two models for such a 
framework: one that would operate with primary dealers and be focused on the repo markets and 
another facility that would include banks that could be focused on funds rate control and 
potentially also affect the reserves in the system. A facility operated exclusively with primary 
dealers would tend to influence secured rates primarily and would not be expected to have much 
effect on unsecured rates or only indirectly. 
I find myself in agreement with the comments we’ve heard by Presidents Harker and 
Bullard and, I believe, Kaplan in that, if I had to choose, I would personally prioritize a standing 

facility with banks as counterparties, with the potential benefit of reducing demand for reserves 
in the system and enhanced control over the funds rate. There are a couple of reasons for this 
priority if we had to choose. The Committee, of course, currently sets its policy with regard to a 
target range for the funds rate, so that seems to me a natural first priority. Obviously, it’s 
important that other money market rates and repo rates are in alignment with our funds rate 
decision. But repo rates go up and down for a variety of reasons, and I, for one, would not 
prioritize eliminating spikes in repo rates as a priority. I am not saying others would, but 
typically those are the most dramatic examples of departures. And, importantly, I think a facility 
including banks would keep the Federal Reserve’s role in financial markets more circumscribed 
than would be the case under a broader facility. 
I do put a priority—perhaps because I’ve gone through Senate confirmation—on 
operating an ample-reserves regime with as small a balance sheet as is necessary. Obviously, 
there’s not a playbook to follow, although I find some appeal from President Bullard’s comments 
about using comparative analysis. In particular, in light of the discussion that we had a meeting 
ago about potential issues associated with our balance sheet or maturity extension at the next 
effective-lower-bound episode, if a well-functioning facility could reduce the demand for 
reserves by $300 billion or $500 billion—I am not saying that it would, but those numbers are 
out there—I think that is potentially a relevant consideration for us apart from others. 
And so, as I said, I think that there is a lot more work on this, reflected in the range of 
views expressed around the table, and I look forward to further discussion about it. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 

MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to, like everyone else, thank the staff for 
providing a thoughtful, well-balanced memo and presentation of the standing fixed-rate repo 
facility. I have to say, one of my long-term staffers remarked that this was the best memo that he 
had seen in 30 years. You should be quite proud of that fact. It’s well done. 
Like many of my colleagues, it’s my view that, before we get into any discussion about 
the nuts and bolts of a standing facility—who the counterparties are, what the eligible securities 
will be, where the fixed rate should be set, and so on—we really have to come to some sort of 
agreement as to exactly what problem the standing facility is trying to solve. 
The memo suggests three possible problems that a standing fixed-rate repo facility might 
solve. First, if we think of the size of the Fed balance sheet as too large, a facility may be able to 
reduce it by incentivizing banks to hold more securities and fewer reserves. Second, if we think 
there’s excess volatility in overnight rates, a facility may provide superior interest rate control, 
by setting a sufficiently low ceiling with a fixed repo rate. And, finally, if we think that periodic 
spikes in overnight rates are disruptive, the repo facility can act as a liquidity backstop to 
mitigate the spikes. I would note that President Rosengren very early on added two other 
possible objectives or problems: One would be to facilitate a migration to SOFR, and then 
another one would be financial stability. So we’ve got five. 
Now, each of the problems in the memo implies a different set of design parameters for a 
standing facility, which is why it is imperative that we agree on the problem that we are trying to 
solve. For example, if the problem is the size of our balance sheet, then the standing facility’s 
counterparty should be banks, and the fixed repo rate should be set close to the prevailing money 
market rates. If, alternatively, the problem is periodic spikes in secured overnight rates, then the 

standing fixed-rate repo facility’s counterparty should be primary dealers, and the fixed repo rate 
should be set somewhat higher than the nonstressed secured money market rates. 
Now, even if the problem is clearly identified, it is not obvious that a standing facility is 
the answer. The memo points out that there can be unintended negative consequences associated 
with the setting of the standing fixed-rate repo facility design parameters. These unintended 
consequences may be sufficiently bad so as to negate the usefulness of the facility itself. So it is 
important that we both understand and can measure these negative consequence. And, in the 
same vein, we must have confidence in the assumptions that underlie the fixed-rate repo facility 
if we decide to move in that direction. For example, if the problem is the size of the Federal 
Reserve’s balance sheet, it is critical that banks have the incentive to reduce their reserve 
holdings by increasing their security holdings. But the memo identifies a number of situations 
that put this assumed behavior in question. 
Now, I am not so concerned about the balance sheet size issue, so I don’t see this facility 
as solving a problem along these lines. Governor Clarida, maybe if I have to testify someday 
[laughter], I will have a different view, but that’s not where I am today. And in the past, I have 
expressed views that the rate control issue might be better addressed by a shift from the current 
federal funds target rate to using overnight bank funding rate (OBFR) as the target rate. If the 
interest rate control concern is about periodic spikes in the secured overnight rates, then an 
alternative solution to a standing fixed-rate repo facility might be to announce that we are ready 
to conduct open market operations with primary dealers on quarter- and year-end days if need be. 
On balance, I think that a robust discussion of this facility is both useful and warranted. I 
have an open mind regarding a standing facility, but, at this point, I’m not completely convinced 
that it would be warranted. I would like to see a deep analysis based on the consensus that the 

Committee reaches, when it reaches that consensus, regarding what problem or problems it 
wants to solve before any decisions are made. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I join with others in thanking the staff for this 
important analysis. From the standpoint of interest rate control, which I believe should continue 
to be our primary objective, I see little motivation to adopt a repo facility like this, since the 
Committee has already announced its intention to implement monetary policy in a regime with 
an ample supply of reserves. If we manage to achieve that objective, volatility should be the 
exception. Pursuing objectives beyond interest rate control, such as trying to incent banks to 
shift from reserves to securities, seems to introduce undesired side effects related to 
disintermediation, the private-sector activity, and a host of other policy considerations mentioned 
in the staff memo. Although I have been among those interested in looking at ways to reduce the 
demand for excess reserves, a standing repo facility does not seem to be the answer. Whether 
there are other ways to achieve this objective remains an open question for me. One 
consideration might be to lower IOER rates on excess reserves above a certain threshold. 
Finally, as the U.S. payment system continues to evolve toward faster settlement options, 
there may well be implications for secured and unsecured lending markets. Under the current 
structure, trading in securities settles earlier in the day than the federal funds market, providing 
some motivation for banks to prefer excess reserves over Treasury securities. To the extent that 
real-time settlement changes the timing of transactions and when they’re settled, it may be the 
case that the trading of securities expands throughout the day and itself contributes to lesser 
demand for excess reserves. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 

MS. BRAINARD. I, too, just want to thank the staff for a very clear and helpful memo. 
In principle, I can support the establishment of a standing repo facility, recognizing that such a 
facility is part of the toolkit of many central banks around the world, and it can be useful in 
providing a soft ceiling on money market rates in exigent circumstances. But I think that we 
would first need to get much greater agreement on the desired purpose of such a facility. I, for 
one, don’t particularly see the need or case for prioritizing the creation of such a facility in order 
to facilitate an approach that involves probing for the kink between the flat and steep portions of 
the demand curve for reserves unless it would greatly reduce the overall size of the balance sheet 
under reasonable parameters—which I doubt. 
In that regard, my preferred approach to balance sheet policy would be to end the 
drawdown of the balance sheet in September, as we have announced, and to allow the balance 
sheet to resume trend growth after a relatively brief pause, perhaps as early as the first quarter of 
next year. Under such an approach, there wouldn’t be any pressing need for a standing repo 
facility: we would stop shrinkage while reserves are still ample, and this would minimize the 
chance of inadvertently bumping into reserve scarcity. 
Consistent with our indication that we would not want our policy instruments to work at 
cross-purposes, the case for ending balance sheet runoff cleanly in the third quarter without 
prolonging that runoff seems to have strengthened recently, with roughly half of the Committee 
now projecting a cut in the policy rate of about 50 basis points over the balance of the year. In 
my view, the benefits of shrinking the balance sheet further by a few tens of billions of dollars in 
the near term are likely to fall short of the costs, in terms of heightened uncertainty and possible 
market volatility at a time when market participants are trying to understand the shift in the 
overall FOMC reaction function, and the economy is being buffeted by crosscurrents. 

Nonetheless, if the Committee chooses to establish a standing fixed-rate repo facility 
either to smooth the runoff process in the near term or to provide a backstop facility in the 
medium term, it would make most sense to establish one that has banks as counterparties rather 
than only primary dealers. To the extent that the reason for establishing such a facility would be 
to limit the volatility of the federal funds rate, as others have said, this is best accomplished 
through a bank-focused facility, whereas a facility focused on primary dealers would work only 
indirectly to influence unsecured rates. 
One possible benefit of a broad-based bank repo facility could be to reduce banks’ 
perceived comfortable level of reserve holdings by providing assurance that nonreserve HQLAs, 
such as Treasuries, could be readily converted to reserves on short notice. However, we will 
need to expand our surveys and outreach to better understand the order of magnitude of the 
resulting reduction in reserves. According to the information we have today, the amount of 
balance sheet reduction from this channel is highly uncertain, and it could turn out to be quite 
small. Surveyed banks indicate that a repo facility would enable them to reduce banks’ steady-
state reserve holdings if they had certainty they would have access to the facility to monetize 
securities holdings when they encounter funding stress. But statutory limitations in FDICIA, as 
well as existing guidance on resolution planning and on Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
counterparty policy, raise real questions about whether the System could commit ex ante to 
provide this access to institutions experiencing firm-specific stress, especially to the few large 
banks who currently account for the vast majority of reserves holdings. And I, too, take certain 
lessons from my interactions with congressional members, and I take very seriously the lessons 
we learned about the restrictions on 13(3) authority in response to its usage with respect to 
particular institutions. 

In addition, there appears to be a tradeoff in the design of the facility between the degree 
to which the facility overcomes stigma and is readily accessed, on the one hand, and the Federal 
Reserve’s “footprint” in the market, on the other. If the repo facility rate is set at a low spread 
over money market rates, repo take-up could be high and broad based, but this would come at the 
expense of disintermediating a greater share of private-sector activity. Whether there’s a “sweet 
spot” that achieves stigma-free, moderate take-up and enables the facility to provide a useful 
ceiling on rates, while also limiting the Federal Reserve’s “footprint” in the market, is an open 
question. 
Given this set of considerations, on balance, I’m comfortable supporting further 
exploration of the design and potential usefulness of a standing repo facility, although I wouldn’t 
view it as a pressing near-term priority. I, too, urge being clear among the Committee—not 
among the staff—as to what problem we’re trying to solve. My instinct would be to explore the 
design of the facility for purposes of relieving broad-based funding market strains in exigent 
circumstances rather than to address the needs of institutions experiencing firm-specific stress. 
And to the extent that we are doing so, I would want to be clear about the specific purpose of that 
standing facility and how it might compare, for instance, with alternatives, such as the term 
auction facility. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you. Like everyone, I want to thank the staff for a memo that 
was both clear and clarifying. It was exceptionally useful. As I thought through the discussion 
in the memo, I focused on a couple of things that I think are, fundamentally, what everyone has 
been discussing so far. First, what are the objectives we are trying to achieve, and how would a 
repo facility compare to alternative methods of achieving those objectives? That may sound like 

two things, but it’s really only one. And, second, how do we prioritize our objectives, and how 
ought that to affect the design of the facility? 
So, as to our objectives, the memo describes, to my mind, two principal ones, 
notwithstanding the varied additional potential objectives that some have mentioned: one, to 
provide a backstop against temporary spikes in the federal funds rate, and, two, to provide an 
incentive for banks to shift their portfolios from reserves to securities by guaranteeing them 
access to reserves during stress episodes. 
So if those are the objectives, and I think they are, what are the costs and benefits of a 
standing repo facility relative to the alternatives? What other tools would we have for addressing 
temporary spikes in the federal funds rate or for meeting increased demand for reserves during 
stress episodes? There tend to be two principal options. First, we could engage in ad hoc open 
market operations to meet temporary increases in reserve demand, maintaining the price of 
reserves within the federal funds target range, or we could keep the level of reserves abundant 
enough to forgo the possibility that the price of reserves ever climbs appreciably above the IOER 
rate, even during stress episodes. In considering the repo facility, we should consider its costs 
and benefits relative to the costs and benefits of these alternatives, because these problems aren’t 
going away simply because we don’t adopt a repo facility. 
Relative to ad hoc open market operations, a ceiling facility might be preferable in 
providing a systematic response to spikes in reserve demand. By providing some assurance that 
demand spikes will be accommodated, the facility could make it less likely that such spikes 
would occur in the first place. And relative to superabundant reserves as a method of addressing 
the question, my preference has been to operate with the smallest effective balance sheet, so I 
view the potential of a repo facility to lower reserve holdings as a major advantage. 

That, then, brings us to the question of prioritization and the Tinbergen principle—one 
tool for one thing. While the memo describes this twofold purpose, it obviously suggests—and 
it’s been a theme of the discussion around the table so far—that we may make different choices 
among the options for various design elements, depending on which of those purposes we value 
most. Are the participants only primary dealers? Are they only banks? Are they both? If 
they’re banks, what kind of banks? How close do we set the repo facility rate to prevailing 
market rates? Will agency securities count as acceptable collateral or only Treasury securities? 
Each of those choices might be different depending on whether what we want most is to affect 
rates or to affect reserve demand. 
As a Committee, then, the threshold question that we face in providing guidance to the 
staff in continuing to work through these design questions is to prioritize these purposes in 
recognition that, as we were taught by Isaiah Berlin, the ends that we pursue and the goods that 
we value cannot always be combined into one harmonious whole. 
With respect to that threshold question, my priority is on reducing banks’ reserve demand 
in order to allow us to maintain a smaller balance sheet than would otherwise be possible and to 
reduce the temptation that a large balance sheet will present to future bright policy whiz kids 
with more ideas than funding. 
Obviously, the two goals are related. A smaller balance sheet will, other things being 
equal, increase the likelihood of temporary spikes in the federal funds rate that the facility could 
ameliorate. But where there are choices to be weighed in the balance, I would put a thumb on 
the side of the scale that reduces reserve demand. In part, that’s because I think there is 
significant scope for us to reduce that demand. We currently estimate long-run reserve demand 
at $1.2 trillion. As I think I’ve mentioned in this group before, and as I’m sure I will mention 

again, the ECB currently estimates the long-run demand for reserves in its system at 
€400 billion—roughly the same size banking system; roughly the same regulatory liquidity 
requirements; estimate arrived at in roughly the same way, via surveys of senior financial 
officers, interpolations to account for unsurveyed banks, adding on a cushion for good measure. 
Yet we’re projecting a level of demand that is three times that of the ECB. At the very least, that 
reinforces the view that I think many of us hold that there is great uncertainty associated with 
these estimates. And I believe it suggests as well that even modest incentives for banks to 
substitute other HQLA for reserves could have big effects. That would allow us, once we freeze 
the size of the balance sheet, to hold it steady for a longer period of time as it continues to shrink 
as a percentage of GDP. This is an objective that many of us have said we would like to achieve. 
In regard to the parameters of the facility discussed in the staff memo, I have a few 
questions and thoughts on the choice of counterparties. The paper argues that a disadvantage of 
a repo facility with only banks is that it might not have immediate direct effects on the broader 
repo markets. But, given my prioritization, I share the view of Governor Clarida that it’s unclear 
to me why this is a disadvantage, as I believe the primary aim of the facility ought to be to affect 
the price of reserves to banks, not to manipulate the broader repo market. 
The memo also notes that there are indications that to make the facility as effective as 
possible in reducing reserve demand, it would need to be available to banks in stress situations in 
ways that primary credit under the discount window might not be. I would be supportive of that 
design feature, guided by my prioritization of the objective of reducing reserve demand when 
possible. Similarly, I’d support a relatively broad range of acceptable collateral for the facility, 
including agencies, as a way of further increasing the attractiveness of alternatives to reserves to 
satisfy HQLA requirements. 

The staff note mentions that promoting regular use of the facility might prevent 
stigmatization, but then it also points out that the more the facility is used, the more likely that 
the Federal Reserve disintermediates private-sector activity, particularly as the Federal Reserve 
is likely to be both a regular borrower and lender of reserves. Okay. On the question of private-
market disintermediation, I am supposed to be the big private-sector guy: limit the scope of 
government. Reason magazine—Robert Nozick—the “night watchman” state: When I’ve had 
plenty of sleep, I can go the whole nine yards. So this is a question that I want to understand 
more, but my initial, not-fully-tutored reaction to the memo is that it wasn’t immediately clear to 
me what private-sector activity would really be disintermediated by a repo facility that 
prioritized reducing bank demand for reserves. The federal funds market is a pretty anemic 
market, concentrated in a handful of suppliers and users in a way that may not be particularly 
stability enhancing. So I will welcome additional work on the disintermediation question so we 
understand its implications better as we continue to think through this issue. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am sympathetic to the idea of such a facility. 
I see three benefits: The first is rate control, the second is smaller balance sheet, and the third is 
financial stability benefits. 
I am inclined at this point to lean toward a Treasury securities-only portfolio. I think it’s 
easier to explain. I am inclined to have as wide a range of counterparties as possible, both banks 
and broker-dealers. And I think if it’s Treasury securities-only, it really helps to answer the 
possible criticism that we’re bailing out banks and broker-dealers—we’re just lending against 
their highest-quality assets, so it doesn’t feel like a bailout to me. I would encourage haircuts 

and spreads as small as possible to make it such that Treasury securities are as fungible vis-à-vis 
reserves as possible. 
There are two areas in particular in which I’d like to see more work. One is on the 
disintermediation question. I listened to the comments and the responses to my question. It 
strikes me that there is only disintermediation if, in fact, we are achieving better rate control. If 
we’re not achieving better rate control, then there is no disintermediation. So those seem like 
they are two sides of the same coin, so I’d want to understand that. I actually do think achieving 
better rate control is one of our goals. And if the cost of that is somewhat more 
disintermediation, it may be worth it. But I want to better understand that. 
Second, all the discussion about lending to stressed counterparties, to me, goes back to 
the fundamentals of the lender of last resort. When I think about the lender of last resort, it’s 
lending against illiquid assets that nobody wants in a time of stress. Here we’re talking about, do 
we want to lend against Treasury securities in a time of stress? It just strikes me that we should 
want to lend against Treasury securities in a time of stress. 
I also think about the examples on this chart that the staff has. Just to pick one, say J.P. 
Morgan has $250 billion in reserves—it looks like $250 billion of Treasury securities. If we 
introduce this facility and J.P. Morgan instead had $400 billion of Treasury securities and $100 
billion in reserves, and then it got into trouble, and then it put some of those Treasury securities 
to us and it ended up with more reserves, it isn’t obvious to me that we’re worse off because of 
this facility. 
A lot of the discussion has been that this facility introduces this new stuff, and maybe 
there’s downside risk. But we have to compare it against the alternative of a big balance sheet 
today with a lot of reserves. It is not at all clear to me that the Federal Reserve is taking on more 

risk by introducing this facility versus just having an always bigger balance sheet. So I need to 
see more work done on some of these downsides, but I’m generally supportive. And, like 
everyone else, I thank the staff. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be the 13th to say “Thank you” to the staff. The 
memo was very helpful in organizing my thoughts and making me think hard about this. 
I’m actually very pleased that we’re having these discussions now. I have an open mind 
about this. And I think as banks continue to adjust to a lower level of reserves—and, 
importantly, we grapple with what the supply will be in order to maintain interest rate control—
this is exactly the kind of conversation we should be having. It’s prudent to develop tools and 
contingency plans to maintain interest rate control. And I guess it’s fortunate I’m sitting right 
across from Governor Quarles, but if I had the scale of reducing reserve demand versus interest 
rate control, my thumb is heavier on the interest rate control. But those are the things we need to 
be debating. 
As the memos and discussion highlight, quantifying the costs and benefits and balancing 
the various tradeoffs that were outlined and discussed here will be critical to designing an 
effective ceiling facility. I’m not going to say anything that others haven’t said, so I’m just 
going to emphasize things that were important to me in my thoughts. But, as others have said, 
deciding on the problem we’re trying to solve will be crucial to deciding what the parameters 
should be for the facility. But I would also emphasize, it’s going to be important to decide 
whether a facility is the right way to treat the problem. And on this point, I’m not sure. I haven’t 
thought about it or seen enough material about reducing reserve demand to know that the best 
way to do it is to have a ceiling facility. Or maybe we could think about what President George 

mentioned or—more importantly, perhaps—think about whether our supervisors are in fact not 
discouraging this idea that reserves are a better and more-liquid asset than holding Treasuries. 
So those are all things that we would have to think carefully about if we’re going to put our 
thumb on the reserve demand part of the scale. 
Should we move ahead, though, I would be particularly focused on ensuring that any repo 
facility avoids the challenges we currently face with the discount window—a tool that banks are 
reluctant to use because of stigma. And as a member of the credit risk management (CRM) 
committee, we’ve thought a lot about this, and there seems to be difficulty getting out of that 
situation. 
One solution, of course, would be to set the rate on the repo facility very close to money 
market rates. But, as everyone has mentioned, this is not without cost. There are political risks, 
I think, to increasing our footprint in financial markets, and it may introduce disintermediation 
that will be hard to unwind. Like President Kashkari, I’d like to see more work on that. 
As the memos detail, our choices on the interest rate and the rules governing access to the 
facility will not be easy. A low-cost repo facility—boy, those are hard words to put together—
that is readily available during times of liquidity stress can encourage risky behavior by those 
who become reliant on that insurance. And this is the classic moral hazard problem. And setting 
the facility at a penalty rate higher than market rates can lower moral hazard but at the risk of 
stigmatizing the facility and then reducing its effectiveness, at least for interest rate control. 
As we assess the benefits of policy control versus the costs of running a facility 
efficiently, I, like President Bullard and President Mester and I think others, really think we 
should look to other foreign central banks that have done these types of things and then ask, what 
has been working for them, what hasn’t? I know when I was looking over the materials 

myself—the Bank of Canada has just released an entire report about the costs of moral hazard 
and how to think about those. So there are a lot of useful examples out there that are outside our 
country that might indicate what we should be doing as we go forward. 
At the risk of wrecking the staff’s summer, I think it would be helpful to see additional 
analysis quantifying the costs of various facilities—some simulations, like what if we chose this 
variety of parameters versus those, and then how do we balance off the political risks of a larger 
balance sheet? And I was struck by the opening remarks by Vice Chair Williams and Governor 
Brainard—we need to really know how much reserve demand reduction we’re going to get and 
then compare that to the tradeoff of the volatility that we’re going to have. And I think President 
Mester said that most concisely: It’s the volatility versus the ample size. So I don’t know how 
to square those two things, but those are going to be important. 
In closing, I find it to be very good practice, whether we adopt a facility or not, for a 
central bank to have contingency plans for the range of risks that might interrupt the execution of 
policy and, in this case, interest rate control. But for now, I’d say our strategy of adjusting the 
IOER rate appears to be working, at least on the interest rate control side, and this gives us plenty 
of opportunity to assess the tradeoffs and design, if we should choose to adopt it, of an effective 
and durable facility. 
So, with total conclusion, I will say that, as we go forward, I would like to see this 
conversation be in the context of running a larger balance sheet. I’m sitting across from all the 
Governors, so I feel the press of how important that is for many people in the Congress, but 
that’s going to really depend on how much reserve demand reduction we’re going to get if we 
take up this facility. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 

MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. As my earlier question and comments indicated in 
the discussion here, I think about this in terms of the monetary policy side and the financial 
stability side. 
Coming at it from a monetary policy side, I remain comfortable with our decision to 
implement monetary policy in a regime of ample reserves. The key benefit of this regime is that 
it provides a floor system and greatly simplifies our operations. The memo and the discussion I 
had with my staff led me to conclude that while a repo facility might, in principle, improve rate 
control at lower levels of reserves or reduce the demand for reserves, this would come with 
considerable cost in terms of complexity. And there are large uncertainties about how well it 
would even work. So I continue to think that our best option is simply to operate with ample 
reserves and stop the reduction in reserves sometime soon. 
In thinking about some of the financial stability issues that have been raised though, I 
think it’s all very complicated. It’s not a discussion that we particularly have at this table, except 
in terms of trying to characterize the state of financial stability. And I wonder if a repo facility is 
the better way to proceed. 
Now, it’s gotten caught up in the arguably monetary policy side of the desire for a lower 
SOMA balance sheet. To the extent that doesn’t get in the way of our dual-mandate objectives, I 
can kind of appreciate that, but I worry about that. 
Again, I think President Mester had a good list of costs and benefits, and one thing I 
believe I heard her mention was that when it comes to the resolution planning side, Treasuries 
can be just as good for banks as reserves, and so perhaps other outreach efforts or education or 
emphasis at levels not at the FOMC level could help improve that. And if that changed the 

demand for reserves and allows a lower SOMA total, that can be very good. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you, President Evans. And thank you, Nate, Laura, and Steve, 
for an excellent memo presentation and for starting a valuable discussion. I would like to 
congratulate you on tying the record of being thanked [laughter] and I believe setting a new 
record for raising quite difficult and subtle questions on something that appeared a lot more 
straightforward a few months ago when I started thinking about it. 
Like others, I see two main potential attractions to this facility, leaving aside some of the 
others for the moment: avoiding spikes in the federal funds rate and keeping reserves as small as 
possible while still being ample. In a textbook world, borrowers would never pay private lenders 
more than a facility’s administered rate, so market rates would have a hard ceiling. Firms would 
also be less eager to hold reserves as a liquidity buffer when they know they can rely on the 
facility as a source of liquidity during a stress event. That would enable us to run a smaller 
balance sheet. 
But we don’t live in a textbook world. The frictions of the real world mean that we 
would have to grapple with a host of truly daunting questions before we’re ready to make a 
decision. I’ll mention four questions and then have a comment at the end. 
First, with this facility, do we set the administered rate high or low? A lower rate, all else 
being equal, makes for a more effective ceiling. It also means that the Federal Reserve would be 
intervening in markets more often. A higher rate would do the opposite: fewer interventions, 
but a less effective ceiling. I did not have a strong prior. After reading the memo—and nothing 
I heard today led me to a clear answer as to which of these is preferable—I think there are 
difficult tradeoffs there. 

Second, in setting a list of counterparties, do we include big banks, small banks, broker-
dealers? Who do we include? My initial reaction is, if you’re going to create that facility, wider 
is better. A narrow approach would limit the efficacy for controlling rates. There’s a fixed cost 
in effort and public reaction to opening and explaining a new facility, and my inclination would 
be to make it as effective as possible if we do it. But before making that decision, I’d want to 
know the extent to which different-sized institutions with different business models would find 
the facility useful. In fact, I hope that additional systematic outreach to a range of potential 
counterparties could help answer this question as well as many of the other ones that have been 
raised. 
Third, stigma. Will stigma prevent firms from using the facility? And I lean fairly 
strongly, certainly, toward probably “yes” on this one. The track record of the discount window 
and the anecdotes we’ve heard from banks and dealers are not encouraging. Money market 
participants won’t want to use the facility if doing so makes it look to their bosses or their 
regulator or the market that they made a mistake or are in trouble. We could try to mitigate that 
stigma risk by playing with the parameters of the facility. If we make a facility attractive enough 
by setting the rate low, perhaps using that facility would make the manager look smart rather 
than caught out, but it would also involve greater disintermediation. 
Fourth, will banks actually want to hold fewer reserves in normal times if we don’t 
guarantee that the facility’s doors will always be open, even for troubled banks? And here I’d 
lean toward “no.” If we’re not prepared to give assurances on this, and that would be a 
reasonable position for us to take, then that would significantly weaken the case. 
As I look at maybe the three main purposes of these—one, rate control; two, size; and 
three, a range of financial stability concerns—I’m not at all sure that any of them is actually 

highly likely to be advanced. So regardless of how you prioritize them, I see real questions 
about advancing them. 
Let’s turn to financial stability issues for a minute. There would just need to be quite a 
lot more thinking. This is an area in which we’ve required very high liquidity on the part of 
these institutions, and we’ve been pretty careful to avoid moral hazard in those things. We’ve 
taken a very different path than the Bank of England, as some of you pointed out, and I just think 
those are deep waters, and it would take quite a lot of careful thinking to want to change what 
we’ve done. 
I do share the view that we could have done more. For example, I think the idea of very 
large broker-dealers that don’t have access to the discount window or any facility—if you’re 
going to have those dealers and allow them to exist, maybe you need to have liquidity facilities. 
But these are big, difficult, deep issues that we’ll need to be thinking about. 
So the bottom line for me is, I think there’s a lot more work to be done. I’m still open 
minded about this. I sense, at this stage, that there are a lot more questions and even concerns 
than there is support for the idea. But notwithstanding that, I think it’s worth further work, and 
there’s a lot more to do. So I’ll stop there and thank everybody for your great comments on 
that topic. 
It is now noon. If there are no more comments on this, it’s lunchtime. So I’m going to 
call the lunch break now, and we’ll come back at one o’clock, according to that clock over there. 
Thanks very much. 
 [Lunch recess] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Let’s turn to the Desk briefing. Lorie, would you like to 
begin? 

MS. LOGAN.3 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be referring to “Material for Briefing 
on Financial Developments and Open Market Operations.” Financial markets moved 
substantially over the intermeeting period. As shown in panel 1, equity prices ended 
the period modestly lower, on net, while interest rates fell notably, extending a 
longer-term trend. 
Today I’ll review the significant moves over this period and what they tell us 
about market participants’ economic outlooks and policy expectations. I’ll focus on 
three questions. First, what has driven the sharp moves in prices of risk assets and 
interest rates over the period? Second, how have market expectations about monetary 
policy evolved? And, third, to what extent do policy expectations reflect differing 
views among market participants on the outlook for trade and its economic effect? 
Starting with the first question, over the intermeeting period, the escalating trade 
conflict led many market participants to take a more pessimistic view of the risks to 
the economy. Returning to panel 1, the markers show that equity prices and interest 
rates fell discretely on the announcement of higher tariffs on Chinese imports in early 
May and again with news in late May that tariffs might be imposed on Mexican 
imports to address non-trade-related objectives. In addition, incoming economic data 
fueled investors’ reassessment of the outlook, with markets reacting negatively to 
data that pointed to a weakening inflation environment and slower growth in the 
United States and abroad. In response to these developments, Treasury yields fell 
sharply. This may have helped stem the decline in prices of risk assets. 
More important for risk assets, comments by Federal Reserve officials in early 
June marked an inflection point. Market participants viewed Federal Reserve 
communications as implicitly acknowledging the possibility of a rate cut this summer. 
The S&P 500 index increased immediately following Chair Powell’s remarks on June 
4, and the standdown in tensions with Mexico a few days later further lifted risk 
markets. 
The Desk surveys, which asked about moves in the 10-year Treasury yield, 
support this interpretation of events. Panel 2 summarizes respondents’ views on the 
importance of factors in explaining changes in the 10-year Treasury yield over the 
period. Respondents overwhelmingly rated changes in international trade policy and 
trade policy uncertainty as the two most important factors. 
Against the backdrop of heightened concern over downside risks from trade 
policy, markets appear to have become more sensitive to incoming negative news 
about the outlook for global growth and inflation. As shown in panel 3, the 
likelihood that survey respondents attach to a U.S. recession, shown on the left side of 
the chart, or global recession, shown on the right side, occurring in the next six 
months has increased since the April surveys after having remained relatively stable 
for some time. The median probability assigned to moving to the zero lower bound 
 
3 The materials used by Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 3). 

between now and the end of 2021 also increased, rising 5 percentage points to 30 
percent. 
Additionally, far-forward measures of inflation compensation, shown in panel 4, 
have fallen significantly in the United States and abroad. Forward inflation 
compensation in the United States has fallen to around 1.73 percent—near the trough 
observed in late 2018, but still above the all-time lows reached in 2016. 
The drop has been even more acute in the euro area, shown in light blue, in which 
measures reached all-time lows. Market participants increasingly believe that further 
monetary policy accommodation will be needed in the euro area, and these 
expectations appear to have been validated in remarks by President Draghi overnight, 
in which he noted risks to the ECB’s inflation mandate and that the Governing 
Council will deliberate further action in coming weeks. Contacts thus far have noted 
that his comments raise the chances of further easing at the July or September 
meetings. Cross-asset price action has been consistent with this expectation, and 
contacts have suggested that both the sharp downward moves in euro-area peripheral 
spreads to German equivalents and the rise in far-forward inflation compensation 
point to heightened expectations of further asset purchases. 
Now, I’ll turn to my second question—how have monetary policy expectations 
evolved in response to these developments? Panel 5 shows the magnitude of 
expected changes in the effective rate this year and next, as measured by implied rates 
on federal funds futures contracts. As shown by the dark blue line, the reassessment 
of the extent of policy rate declines in 2019 has been significant, with futures 
implying 68 basis points of easing by year-end and a further 31 basis points of easing 
in 2020. 
Sizable changes in the anticipated path of the policy rate were also reported in the 
Desk surveys. As shown in panel 6 on your second exhibit, respondents now assign 
the highest average probability to the FOMC’s next policy action this year being a 
target rate decrease. At 58 percent, this average probability is well above the 16 
percent assigned to this outcome in the April surveys. 
Consistent with the most likely next policy action being a rate decrease, the 
median of respondents’ expectations regarding the most likely level of the target rate 
now implies two 25 basis point cuts in 2019, at the September and December 
meetings. While no survey respondents have a modal projection for a change at this 
meeting, a sizable minority—18 of 53—now see a rate cut by the July meeting as 
most likely, and 5 of these respondents expect a cut of 50 basis points. 
Amid the rapidly evolving outlook, markets have become more uncertain about 
the interest rate path, and views have become more dispersed. Panel 7 shows that 
short-dated option-implied interest rate volatility increased sharply to levels not seen 
since 2010. 

Additionally, measures of interest rate forecast dispersion rose. In the most recent 
Desk surveys, the standard deviation of respondents’ modal expectations of the target 
rate four meetings ahead, shown in panel 8, more than doubled from its consistently 
low level over the past several years. 
As shown by the distribution at the top of panel 9, nearly all respondents to the 
April surveys predicted that the policy rate would be unchanged at year-end. The 
distribution in the bottom of the panel shows the broad disagreement today, with 
some respondents continuing to expect a flat rate path, others expecting two rate cuts, 
and a few expecting three or even four cuts by the end of the year. 
So what is the underlying cause of this disagreement, and—my third question—to 
what extent does it reflect differing views on the outlook for trade and its economic 
effect? The Desk surveys asked respondents about their expectations regarding trade 
policy, and their responses suggest that differing outlooks for the near-term evolution 
of the conflict could explain a significant share of the differences in policy rate 
expectations. Panel 10 plots survey respondents’ modal expectations for the degree 
of rate cuts this year. Respondents are sorted into three categories based on their 
expectations of how U.S.–China trade policy will evolve: a phasing-out of tariffs, 
maintenance of the status quo, and the implementation of additional tariffs. 
Respondents are roughly evenly split between these three outcomes. As we move 
from left to right across the chart, representing worsening expectations regarding 
tariffs, respondents also generally expect a lower policy rate at year-end. Buy-side 
respondents overall, shown as the red dots, hold a more pessimistic view on the trade 
outlook, consistent with their expectations for greater near-term easing. 
As market participants continue to weigh the potential effects of trade tensions on 
the outlook and the path of the policy rate, they have highlighted several watch 
points, including the upcoming G-20 meeting. Desk contacts also note a variety of 
data points and developments beyond trade that they will be monitoring—such as 
Brexit, the Italian fiscal situation, and rising geopolitical tensions with Iran. 
As I noted earlier, while no change to the stance of policy is expected at this 
meeting, as summarized in panel 11, survey respondents do expect FOMC 
communications to indicate that the Committee is closely monitoring risks and 
uncertainty to the outlook and will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion. 
Specifically, many Desk survey respondents expect the FOMC statement to highlight 
downside risks to the outlook, including those posed by trade-related developments. 
Some also indicated that the Committee may change the forward guidance section of 
the statement by altering or removing the language referencing a “patient” approach 
to future adjustments in favor of language emphasizing flexibility or even signal a 
readiness to cut rates. 
With regard to the SEP, the median survey expectation is for no change to the 
median of FOMC participants’ projections of the federal funds rate at year-end, but 
for the year-end 2020 and 2021 median “dots” to decline 25 basis points from their 
March levels. These expectations imply that the median SEP numbers will indicate 

no net change to the target rate through 2021. The median survey respondent expects 
no change to the SEP median longer-run target rate projection. Respondents 
generally assigned downside risk to their own expectations for the median dots, and 
many expect that one or more FOMC participants’ dots would indicate rate cuts by 
year-end 2019 or 2020. 
I’ll turn now to recent money market developments, summarized in panel 12 on 
your third exhibit, and then conclude the briefing with two operational updates. After 
rising in the last few weeks of April, money market rates generally stabilized at lower 
levels over this intermeeting period. As shown in panel 13, the distribution of federal 
funds trades shifted lower, with less activity occurring at 5 basis points or more above 
the IOER rate, shown in orange and peach, and more activity at or around the IOER 
rate, shown in red and pink. 
There were two main drivers of this shift. First, as shown in panel 14, the 
technical adjustment was effective in lowering money market rates 4 to 5 basis points. 
Second, as shown in panel 15, reserve balances increased more than $100 billion to 
roughly $1.6 trillion, returning to levels seen before the April midmonth tax date. As 
expected, the elevated repo rates and increase in unsecured rates associated with tax 
season flows were transitory. 
Within this broad context, we continue to witness some trends in reserve 
conditions to note. First, consistent with the idea that we may be on a gentle slope in 
the demand curve for reserves, the volume-weighted average federal funds rate 
continued to exhibit modest sensitivity to daily changes in aggregate reserve levels. 
However, this modest rate sensitivity to changes in reserves appears to be limited to 
the federal funds market, with no discernible direct effect on Eurodollars or repo 
rates. 
Second, while we aren’t seeing direct effects of daily changes in reserves on repo 
rates, market participants have reported seeing more pass-through from repo to 
federal funds on days when there is heightened firmness in repo, as shown in panel 
16. This year we have seen a persistent pattern of increases in repo rates on month-
end and, more recently, around midmonth Treasury settlement dates. Market 
participants attribute these periodic increases in repo rates in part to elevated net 
dealer inventories of Treasury securities, which dealers finance in the repo market. 
As shown in panel 17, primary dealer inventories continued to increase over the 
intermeeting period, reaching a new historical high. 
To look ahead, panel 18 shows the Desk staff’s current reserves projection over 
the remainder of the year. First, as denoted with marker A, preliminary data suggest 
reserves declined roughly $100 billion yesterday as a result of the midmonth 
corporate tax payment date and Treasury debt issuance. This outflow of funds from 
bank deposits and the associated change in reserve balances are similar to those 
witnessed around the April tax date. These deposit outflows, along with the rise in 
repo rates associated with the Treasury settlement, contributed to a 2 basis point 
increase in the EFFR yesterday. 

Reserve balances are expected to rise over the summer as the Treasury reduces 
bill issuance and manages the TGA to a lower level in order to comply with debt 
ceiling legislation. This reduction in the TGA balance will gradually build up reserve 
balances, with only a brief drop around the midmonth September tax payment date. 
The timing of the debt ceiling resolution remains uncertain, but a range of estimates 
for when it could become binding and when a resolution could materialize are shown 
by marker B. 
Rising reserves due to a decline in the TGA balance over the summer will mask 
somewhat the underlying drain on reserves arising from ongoing SOMA redemptions 
and gradual growth in nonreserve liabilities. After runoff of the Treasury securities 
portfolio concludes at the end of September, sharp increases in the TGA balance and 
an uptick in currency growth, reflecting seasonal demand for currency, are likely to 
drive significant reductions in reserve balances later in the year. As shown by the 
area marked “C,” reserves are currently projected to fall to level of about between 
$1.3 trillion by December—the lowest level since March 2011. 
Although these are only forecasts, which are based on certain assumptions and 
subject to uncertainty—particularly with respect to debt ceiling dynamics—the 
projected range of reserves lies just above market participants’ median expectation of 
the lowest weekly average level of reserves taken from the Desk surveys. The 
median respondent’s estimate for the lowest weekly average level of reserves 
between now and 2025 has increased to $1.2 trillion since December, and the 
dispersion of estimates has narrowed, as shown by the compression of the blue boxes 
in panel 19. 
Reflecting the current distribution of reserves across institution types, shown in 
panel 20, a significant share of the reserve declines would be expected to come from 
U.S. G-SIBs and FBOs, as these categories of banks are currently holding the largest 
surpluses. However, if these firms continue holding similar amounts of reserves and 
other banks do not reduce their minimum reserve targets at current rates, there is the 
potential for declining reserves to place upward pressure on the distribution of rates 
paid in federal funds and other overnight money market rates toward the end of the 
year. 
In addition, these dynamics could occur in the context of a flat or inverted yield 
curve, which makes the rate paid on reserve balances attractive relative to other forms 
of HQLA. Panel 21 shows the current yield curve relative to the IOER rate. Amid 
the significant shift down in rates on Treasury securities, some large banks have 
suggested a shift in their preference toward maintaining higher reserve balances in 
managing their portfolios of HQLA and away from holdings of Treasury securities. 
I’ll conclude by providing some context about two operational developments. 
First, in light of the substantial decline in Treasury yields over recent months, the 
Desk began reinvesting MBS principal payments again in May. On the basis of 
current market rates and prepayment forecasts, the Desk expects to reinvest modest 
amounts over the coming months and again next summer, as shown in panel 22. The 

$20 billion cap thus is serving its intended purpose of stabilizing the reduction in 
MBS holdings and preventing an overly rapid removal of support from the housing 
market when rates decline. 
Second, following the May FOMC meeting, the Desk released a statement and 
FAQs regarding plans to reinvest principal payments from agency debt and MBS up 
to the $20 billion cap into Treasury securities starting in October. There was limited 
market attention to the release. The full schedule of projected reinvestments into 
Treasury securities is shown in panel 23. That said, in recent weeks there has been 
increased focus on whether the FOMC may pull forward its plan to end redemptions 
should it decide to cut rates at this meeting or in July. Although we did not ask a 
question about this on the Desk surveys, some respondents volunteered views on it, 
and others have discussed it in published commentary. In particular, of the eight 
dealers that expect a rate cut at the July meeting, three indicated expectations of an 
earlier end to runoff, one indicated that its baseline expectation was for the balance 
sheet normalization plan to remain unchanged, and four did not express a view. 
Finally, our plans for upcoming small-value exercises are summarized in the 
appendix. Thank you, Mr. Chair—that concludes my prepared remarks. Patricia and 
I would be happy to take questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you, Lorie. And any questions now for Lorie or for Patricia? 
President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Lorie, can you just spend another minute on 
this inverted yield curve and how it’s related to reserve balances? I hadn’t thought about that 
before. I’m trying to understand why somebody would buy a two-year Treasury or a three-year 
Treasury security at such a low yield as opposed to reserves, for which they get a better return. It 
just strikes me as odd. 
MS. LOGAN. So that’s exactly, I think, what we’ve been hearing here—the 
conversation that we’ve heard from some banks is, as they’re thinking about the composition of 
their HQLA portfolios, given the inverted yield curve and in view of the liquidity preference for 
reserves relative to Treasury securities, they’re thinking about shifting more into reserves relative 
to holding longer-dated Treasury securities. 

MR. KASHKARI. That makes sense when you explain it that way. I’m just wondering, 
how does the curve then invert? Why isn’t the IOER rate a floor? And why is it taking this long 
for markets to react to that? 
MS. LOGAN. Because the curve is projecting a lowering of the IOER rate with the 
expected rate cuts that are being shown up in market prices. It’s reflecting the expected path of 
the policy rate. 
MS. ZOBEL. I would also note there are other considerations that banks take into 
account when they’re looking at the construction of their HQLA portfolios. This would certainly 
give you more incentive to hold reserves than they otherwise would, absent this yield advantage 
of reserves. But there are asset liability matching constraints and other things that they’re taking 
into consideration as they construct that. I think that this is one factor that is, right now, 
increasing a few banks’ reserve holdings over other funds of HQLA. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Other questions? President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Exhibit 2, chart 10, “Year-End 2019 Decline in Modal Path, by Trade 
Expectations.” I’ve got a question about whether or not the market commentary—if they said 
anything more about the additional tariffs or the size of the additional tariffs you had in mind 
when you asked them that question. I was talking to one business contact who does business in 
Mexico, China, and Europe, and he indicated that if European tariffs are imposed, it was going to 
be shockingly larger for their business. They’re not in the automobile industry themselves; 
they’re in the heavy-equipment industry. So, are these large European tariffs anticipated, or— 
MS. LOGAN. This material comes from some of the qualitative questions in the survey, 
and most of what we saw in that commentary was the 25 percent on all the Chinese tariffs. 

MR. EVANS. Okay. 
MS. LOGAN. But I think the broader uncertainty about tariffs as a political tool beyond 
just trade policy was probably implicitly in some of the discussion as well. 
MR. EVANS. Okay. It sounds like Europe would be larger still. 
CHAIR POWELL. Any further—President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Just an observation that I would be interested in your reaction to. 
The June 2019 survey in panel 9 is bimodal and looks a little bit like the SEP, and I guess I 
would have expected your panel 10 to be split a little bit closer to the way that bimodal 
distribution looks. Do you have other views on why it’s so bimodal in panel 9 but seems more 
dispersed based on tariffs in panel 10? 
MS. LOGAN. Two points I would draw out. One, I think our categorization here is 
based on our own assessment of some qualitative responses. So I would be a little bit cautious in 
reading too much into the specific delineation in the chart. But, second, I think there are two 
things: One is the probability of these events, and the other is the economic effects of the events, 
and so that may play out differently when you combine both points in chart 9 than what I’m 
showing here in a way that is categorized. The other thing is, we did do chart 10 also by 
recession probabilities, so it looks very similar. So for those who are to the right of this chart, 
their recession probabilities were higher than the ones over to the left. So it played out in other 
ways as well. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Just one more. From reading these exhibits, although they don’t say 
this, the bulk of the change on panel 9 from April to June has to do with weakness in the 
economy, trade uncertainty. Do you have a sense—and this would have to just be anecdotal—

how much of this change in distribution has to do with lagging inflation or expectations that the 
FOMC may use inflation as a reason to lower the target funds rate? Do you have a sense of that, 
just on the basis of some of your conversations? 
MS. LOGAN. If you go back to exhibit 1, panel 2, I would say, from the qualitative 
review of the survey responses and the discussions that we had in the market, I would focus, 
first, on the trade discussion, as you said, and, second, the underlying backdrop of weaker global 
growth in the United States. But we tried to get at the other question you had in the FOMC’s 
reaction function. So you can see there was some weight on that one—it was much more 
dispersed than the trade story. And I think that trade came out much more predominantly in the 
qualitative responses. 
MR. KAPLAN. Okay. Thanks. 
CHAIR POWELL. If there are no further—Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. You said that there’s also a lot of correlation between the responses 
on trade and recession probabilities. Can you talk a little bit more about that? 
MS. LOGAN. We did the same exercise, same buckets, and then did the recession 
probabilities that I talked about in the earlier panel. 
MS. BRAINARD. Yes. 
MS. LOGAN. And it’s not perfect in the way that the chart looks, but it gives you the 
same sort of impression. 
MS. BRAINARD. The same kind of distribution. 
MS. LOGAN. One thing we also looked at is the probability of hitting the lower bound 
in this way and that didn’t show up as clearly. One thing we were thinking about, although we’d 
have to spend more time looking at it, is maybe if the idea was the FOMC would react 

preemptively, then maybe the lower-bound probability wouldn’t have gone up. So that same 
pattern didn’t show up when we looked at the probabilities of the ELB. 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. All right. If there are no further questions, we need a vote to 
ratify domestic open market operations conducted since the April–May meeting. Do I have a 
motion to approve? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. All in favor? [Chorus of ayes] Thank you. Next we will turn to the 
review of the economic and financial situation. Jeremy, would you like to start, please? 
MR. RUDD.4 Thank you. I’ll be referring to the packet with the cover sheet 
titled “Material for Staff Presentation on the Domestic Economic Situation.” Panel 1 
updates our near-term GDP projection. After the Tealbook was closed, we received 
the retail sales report and Monthly Treasury Statement for May, both of which came 
in stronger than expected. As a result, our current-quarter GDP growth projection, 
line 1, now stands at 2.3 percent; this is ½ percentage point above our June Tealbook 
forecast and 0.3 percentage point above our April forecast, line 2. Given our read of 
fundamentals, we made only minor adjustments to our second-half GDP projection, 
which continues to be weaker than in April, mainly because of our more pessimistic 
outlook for business fixed investment, lines 7 and 8. 
Over the medium term, we anticipate that average output growth will run about in 
line with potential, implying a relatively flat trajectory for the unemployment rate, the 
black line in panel 2. The slightly lower level of output in this projection led us to 
nudge up the path of the unemployment rate; even so, it remains nearly a percentage 
point below our unrevised estimate of the natural rate. 
We also received the May CPI and PPI reports after the Tealbook was closed. 
Although the May core CPI was softer than expected, the components of the PPI that 
enter the core PCE price index came in higher. Our estimate of the monthly change 
in core PCE prices in April and May therefore still rounds to 0.2 percent in each 
month, which is a faster pace than what was seen earlier this year. We estimate that 
the 12-month change in core PCE prices, the red line in panel 3, was 1.5 percent in 
May and expect it to reach 1.7 percent by late summer. In contrast to April, headline 
inflation, the black line, is now expected to run a few tenths below core inflation, 
reflecting a larger anticipated decline in consumer energy prices this year. 
Core inflation, the black line in panel 4, is expected to remain below 2 percent 
over the medium term. This outcome largely reflects our view that underlying 
 
4 The materials used by Mr. Rudd are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). 

inflation, the gray bars—which we define as the rate of PCE price inflation that 
would prevail in the absence of slack, idiosyncratic relative price changes, or supply 
shocks—will remain constant over the next few years at 1.8 percent. High rates of 
resource utilization, the red bars, are expected to put upward pressure on core 
inflation, but the contribution is small. 
These two elements of the inflation projection are explored further on the next 
page. First, the staff’s expectation that underlying inflation will remain fixed at just 
below 2 percent is informed by empirical estimates of inflation’s long-run trend. 
Panel 5 shows one such estimate, the red line, which is obtained from a small VAR 
with time-varying parameters. This trend has changed little—and has run below 
2 percent—since the late 1990s. 
Second, the limited contribution of resource utilization to inflation over the 
medium term reflects a Phillips curve that is currently quite flat by historical 
standards. This flattening is illustrated in panel 6, which plots the response of core 
inflation following a shock to the unemployment gap at different points in time. In 
terms of inflation’s peak response, the current effect of a reduction in the 
unemployment gap, the red line, is less than two-thirds what it was in 1985, the blue 
line, and roughly a third of what it was in 1975, the black line. 
With a flat Phillips curve, the influence of slack on inflation will often be difficult 
to discern—even on a year-to-year basis—given how variable inflation’s other 
determinants can be. Panel 7 demonstrates this point with a VAR-based 
decomposition. For this exercise, I am using market-based PCE prices—so the erratic 
nonmarket component is absent—and I’m looking at four-quarter changes. The black 
line plots actual inflation, and the solid red line plots the estimated effect of shocks to 
the unemployment gap. Movements in the unemployment gap over this period have 
had a noticeable low-frequency effect on inflation. But their influence is often 
obscured by the effect of other shocks. For example, even as the gap was closing, 
inflation remained persistently low from 2013 through 2016. As shown by the red 
dashed line, which adds in the effect of import prices, the model attributes much of 
the weakness in inflation over that period to this source. Likewise, inflation dipped 
lower in 2017; the model attributes much of this swing to idiosyncratic shocks, such 
as that year’s plunge in wireless services prices. It’s worth pointing out that, with the 
exception of import prices, these non-slack-related influences on inflation are 
unlikely to have much connection to changes in the stance of monetary policy. 
By contrast, the wage Phillips curve does not appear to have flattened very much. 
The current estimated response of labor cost growth to changes in the unemployment 
gap, the red line in panel 8, is similar in magnitude to what it was 35 years ago, the 
blue line. In addition, comparing panels 6 and 8, which are plotted using the same 
scale, reveals that labor cost growth is more sensitive to slack than is price inflation. 
This finding is noteworthy because it suggests we can’t explain the flattening of the 
price Phillips curve in terms of developments in labor markets—for example, a 
reduction in worker bargaining power over time that would make firms’ labor costs 
less responsive to slack. Instead, developments in product markets—for instance, 

changes in firms’ pricing behavior—would appear to be behind the weakening of the 
relationship between resource utilization and price inflation. 
The next set of exhibits reviews some of the considerations that inform our 
judgmental assessment that the level of real activity is currently well above potential. 
An implication of a flatter Phillips curve is that price inflation is no longer very 
informative about the economy’s cyclical position. One way to deal with this 
problem is to bring additional information to bear, in the form of other 
relationships—such as Okun’s law or a production function—or other variables that 
might tell us something useful about slack. This information can be exploited in a 
relatively unrestricted way with a time-series model; alternatively, one can impose 
restrictions implied by theory in the context of a structural model, such as a 
DSGE model. 
Panel 9 reports output gap estimates from seven time-series models maintained by 
the Board’s staff. The range of model estimates is given by the green shaded region, 
and our judgmental gap estimate is plotted as the black line. In broad terms, the 
various estimates move rather similarly; right now, most of the models point to a little 
less tightness in resource utilization than what is implied by the judgmental estimate. 
The main “takeaway,” though, is that the range of estimates across these models is 
wide, even without taking into account statistical uncertainty. 
Panel 10 presents output gap estimates from four DSGE models that are 
maintained across the System; our judgmental estimate is again given by the black 
line. The range of gap estimates implied by these models is currently a little wider 
than that for the time-series models—though it’s narrower than it has been in the 
past—and it includes the judgmental estimate. 
The fact that the wage Phillips curve remains relatively steep suggests that it 
might be possible to augment a time-series model with a wage equation in order to 
more precisely tie down the output or unemployment gap. Panel 11 plots the natural 
rate of unemployment from the Board’s benchmark time-series model, the blue line, 
together with its 70 percent confidence interval and, for comparison, our judgmental 
estimate of the natural rate, the black line. In panel 12, the time-series estimate, the 
red line, comes from a version of the model that incorporates a wage equation. The 
contour and level of both model estimates are similar; additionally, incorporating the 
wage equation narrows the confidence interval about ¼ percentage point. 
The interplay of slack and compensation growth is explored further on the next 
page. We interpret recent compensation growth—in particular, its having mostly 
remained below its pre-recession pace—as about what one would expect given our 
view of the unemployment gap, expected inflation, and the rate of structural 
productivity growth. Hence, a simulation from a model that incorporates these 
influences, the blue line in panel 13, tracks actual compensation growth, the black 
line, tolerably well since the previous business cycle peak. 

By contrast, some have suggested that current compensation growth reflects a 
larger margin of labor market slack that is better captured by broader measures such 
as the employment-to-population ratio, shown in panel 14 to the right as the orange 
line. The employment-to-population ratio does remain below its pre-recession level. 
However, the staff’s view is that demographic and other factors have, on net, put 
downward pressure on this ratio, implying a declining trend, the black line. 
Moreover, if one uses this trend to define a gap measure that is then used in a wage 
equation instead of the unemployment gap, the resulting model yields values for wage 
growth, the orange line in panel 13, that don’t track the data quite as well. 
Of course, one might question whether our judgmental trend measure—which 
incorporates our view of the natural rate of unemployment and trend labor force 
participation—yields a reasonable estimate of the employment-to-population ratio 
gap. The black line in panel 15 plots the cumulative change in our judgmental natural 
rate estimate since 2005, when we view activity in the labor market as close to 
equilibrium. Since that time, we see the natural rate as declining, on net, 
0.6 percentage point. This decline is greater than what would be implied by the 
estimated effect of changes in the age and sex composition of the labor force, the blue 
line, and is about the same as what would be implied were we to also account for 
changes in the educational attainment of the workforce, the red line. Hence, 
demographic factors alone don’t yet provide much justification for a further reduction 
in our assumed natural rate, especially given other indicators of labor market 
functioning, such as the position of the Beveridge curve and estimates of matching 
efficiency. 
What about the participation rate? Our judgmental estimate of the trend 
participation rate, the solid green line in panel 16, incorporates the effect of the 
changing age–sex composition of the labor force, the dashed red line, together with 
our assessment of the trends for each age-sex group. As you can see, the age–sex 
composition effect—which most would view as relatively uncontroversial—accounts 
for the bulk of the decline in the judgmental trend. 
As I noted earlier, the Tealbook projection assumes that the rate of underlying 
PCE price inflation is fixed over the medium term at 1.8 percent. Some of the 
empirical estimates that we use to inform that assumption are shown on the next page, 
in panel 17. Now that you have your reading glasses on, if you look at the table, 
almost all of these estimates have edged down since late 2007, though in most cases 
by only a tenth or two. The staff’s judgmental assumption is near the top of the range 
of current estimates, whose equal-weighted average is 1.7 percent. 
In economic terms, the staff interpret the behavior of underlying inflation as 
reflecting well-anchored long-run inflation expectations on the part of wage- and 
price-setters. The evidence for this view is largely circumstantial, however, and 
basically consists of noting that survey measures of longer-term expected inflation, 
the black and red lines in panel 18, and statistical measures of inflation’s long-run 
trend, the blue line, have similar contours. 

Let’s assume this interpretation is correct, and long-run inflation expectations are 
anchored at a level that implies 1.8 percent underlying PCE price inflation. If 
policymakers care equally about maintaining inflation at 2 percent and keeping real 
activity at potential, this situation is problematic, because—under the staff’s view of 
the Phillips curve—it implies that achieving 2 percent inflation will require pushing 
activity above potential indefinitely. Say, however, that agents were to start updating 
their long-run expectations in response to observed inflation outcomes. Over time, as 
policymakers acted in accordance with their 2 percent inflation goal, agents’ long-run 
inflation expectations should move up to 2 percent. But during this time, the 
economy will also be subject to various sorts of shocks, which it will now have to 
face without the benefit of anchored inflation expectations. In particular, without 
anchored expectations, shocks will have more persistent effects on inflation; inflation 
control therefore becomes more costly, inasmuch as policymakers must engineer 
larger or more persistent movements in real activity to offset the effects of the shocks 
on inflation. 
Assuming policymakers do seek to stabilize both the output gap and deviations of 
inflation from 2 percent, are unanchored expectations likely to be preferable? I 
explore this question with a simple model in which long-run inflation expectations are 
either fixed at 1.8 percent or derived from a forecasting rule that agents fit to recent 
data. Outcomes of simulations of the model are evaluated with a loss function, which 
summarizes numerically how well policymakers’ stabilization goals are being met; 
smaller values of the loss function imply better outcomes. 
Panel 21 describes the model, which is related to one used by President Williams 
and Athanasios Orphanides in a 2005 paper. The model has an expectations-
augmented Phillips curve, in which expectations are generated by a simple 
forecasting rule. The coefficients of this rule are updated each period using a rolling 
window of recent data; if the window is wide, then the rule updates less when new 
data are received, and vice versa. The policy rule reacts to deviations of actual 
inflation from a specified target level, which need not be the same as policymakers’ 
true inflation preference, which is always for 2 percent. The assumed loss function is 
similar to the one used by the Tealbook’s optimal control simulations. It implies that 
the best outcome is one in which inflation is at 2 percent and the economy is at full 
employment, defined here as a zero output gap. Finally, inflation and the output gap 
are subject to random shocks. 
I first consider how the size of the loss depends on how much agents revise their 
forecasting rule when they receive new data, which can be thought of as a proxy for 
how unanchored expectations are. These loss values, which I express relative to the 
loss that obtains if expectations remain completely anchored at 1.8 percent, are 
plotted in panel 22. As agents’ sensitivity to incoming data rises—that is, as fewer 
years of data are used to estimate the forecasting rule—the loss increases at an 
increasing rate. In addition, all of these relative losses are larger than 1, so in this 
model, having expectations remain anchored, even at a level a little below the policy 
goal, is preferable to having them become unanchored. 

It turns out that it takes more than 20 years for long-run expectations to converge 
to 2 percent for every case shown in panel 22. One way to speed up this process 
would be to raise the target inflation rate in the policy rule—that is, to engage in a 
form of overshooting. The effects of doing so are shown in panel 23, in which I 
assume that agents have an intermediate degree of sensitivity to incoming data. If, for 
example, policymakers act as though their inflation target is 2.3 percent instead of 
2 percent, they can push up long-run expectations to 2 percent after about 14 years. 
One person noted that’s about the term of a Governor—that wasn’t intentional, but it 
was too late to change the charts. [Laughter] However, this approach yields a larger 
loss relative to a policy that just aims for 2 percent. Intuitively, aiming for a level of 
inflation that’s too high relative to the policymaker’s actual preference—which is 
always for 2 percent—results in additional costs that are only partly offset by the 
benefit of having expectations rise to 2 percent more quickly. 
I would emphasize that this is an extremely stylized and simple model that ignores 
many potentially relevant considerations, such as the presence of the ELB and anything 
related to policymaker credibility. It is therefore not clear that these results woul d 
obtain—even qualitatively —with a richer specification or in a model that made 
different assumptions about how expectations are formed. In addition, the analysis is 
premised on the notion that it ’s somehow possible to induce agents to start revising 
their long-run expectations—which might, in practice, require something like a regime 
shift, and which might have additional consequences such as leading to a change in the 
slope of the Phillips curve or a widening of term premiums. Nevertheless, questions 
such as how inflation expectations are formed, how they come to be anchored or 
unanchored, and how they influence actual inflation seem highly relevant to the 
discussions of alternative strategies you will be having later this year. Steve will now 
discuss the international outlook. 
MR. KAMIN.
5 Thank you, Jeremy. I’ll be referring to the materials in your next 
packet labeled “Material for Briefing on the International Outlook.” Over the 
intermeeting period, the staff in the International Finance Division have been seeking 
the answers to three questions. First, is the global economy on track for a sustainable 
recovery from its recent soft patch? Second, what will the future bring as far as trade 
policy, and how will that affect U.S. and global growth? And, finally, how do you 
pronounce “Huawei”? [Laughter] I’m happy to say we have an answer to one of 
those questions—it’s pronounced “Wa-way,” so the H is silent, like my New Yorker 
wife would pronounce “yoo-man” for “human” or “Yoo-ston” for “Houston.” But, 
unfortunately, convincing answers to the first two questions have been harder to 
pin down. 
Let’s start with global growth, shown in your first exhibit. Total foreign growth, 
the black line, appears to have bottomed out at about 1½ percent in the fourth quarter, 
well below our estimate of 2½ percent potential growth, and looks to have remained 
depressed in the first quarter. When we wrote down our forecast for the April 
Tealbook, indicated by the dashed line, we were moderately upbeat about prospects 
 
5 The materials used by Mr. Kamin are appended to this transcript (appendix 5). 

for recovery. Chinese growth had picked up sharply; European indicators, while not 
quite as ebullient, pointed to stronger activity than we’d anticipated beforehand; and a 
number of key risks—trade policy, Brexit, and Italy—had been at least put off for the 
time being. Since then, however, data from abroad have been generally 
disappointing, and as you are well aware, global risks are back with a vengeance. In 
consequence, as you can see on the right, after having revised up our forecast for total 
foreign real GDP growth in April, we’re back to marking down our forecast for 
growth in the current round, mainly in the EMEs. We are also less confident that the 
fairly rapid convergence toward potential we have in our outlook will materialize. 
Your next slide dives deeper into our global forecast. In the euro area, first-
quarter GDP growth actually came in a little stronger than we’d predicted in April, 
with growth rising to 1½ percent. However, still-gloomy manufacturing indicators 
point to some slowing for the remainder of the year, and downside risks have clearly 
increased: Prime Minister May’s stepping down means that a disruptive, no-deal 
Brexit is more likely, while Italy and the EU are back to feuding about the budget. 
In China, data for April and May came in demonstrably weaker than we and most 
analysts were expecting. In consequence, we’ve written down a sharper slowdown 
from the first-quarter spike than in the April Tealbook. The reemergence of trade 
tensions also restrains China’s outlook, both as a direct result of the tariff hikes and as 
uncertainty weighs on investment. Lower Chinese growth, in turn, will pose some 
drag to the rest of emerging Asia, the bottom-left panel. 
Finally, the weakest area of the global outlook is Latin America. First-quarter 
GDP contracted in Mexico, Brazil, and Argentina, and it flatlined in Chile and 
Colombia. No single factor explains this extraordinary weakness, which likely 
reflects some combination of domestic and global political uncertainty, the continuing 
slump in global trade and manufacturing, and still-low prices for some commodities. 
In the absence of strong reasons why the region should stay depressed, we have 
growth picking up starting this quarter. However, given Latin America’s recent track 
record, conviction in this pickup is weak, which is especially unfortunate as it 
accounts for much of the rise in global growth we’re predicting for the near term. 
As indicated by the declining PMIs in the left panel of your next exhibit, the 
failure of the global economy to achieve a more concerted revival is related to the 
continued weakness in manufacturing and exports, even as the service sector has held 
up better. Exactly what accounts for this ongoing slump is difficult to pin down. 
Historically, both trade and manufacturing have exhibited outsized responses to 
movements in aggregate demand, and this could explain the sharp downturns in these 
measures during 2018. But it’s harder to explain why they weakened further this 
year, even as GDP growth has seemed to bottom out. 
One widely cited factor, of course, is the emergence of trade tensions. As Lorie 
mentioned, this was heavily emphasized in the primary dealer survey and is also 
evidenced by the recent increase in trade policy uncertainty, or TPU, shown on the 
right. The actual rise in tariffs over the past year has probably exerted only a modest 

direct effect on trade and output. But in principle, a rise in trade policy uncertainty 
could depress investment spending and economic activity to a greater extent. Indeed, 
the rise in TPU in early 2018 does seem to coincide with the decline in trade and 
manufacturing PMIs. 
Our econometric analysis, however, suggests that, at least for the United States, 
the run-up in the TPU should have had relatively small effects. Moreover, as shown 
in the left panel of your next exhibit, sectors of the U.S. economy that are especially 
exposed to import costs, as measured along the x-axis, don’t seem to have 
experienced a more pronounced decline in the growth of investment this quarter, 
measured along the y-axis. Similarly, as shown on the right, sectors with high export 
shares haven’t experienced unusually large declines in cap-ex growth either. 
Trade policy uncertainty might have exerted larger effects abroad, of course. 
Those effects presumably would have been concentrated in economies that were most 
at risk from trade protection. However, as shown by your next exhibit, this doesn’t 
seem to be the case either. The panel on the left shows that economies with a high 
share of exports to the United States (on the x-axis) don’t seem to have experienced 
greater declines in investment spending last year (the y-axis). The chart on the right 
shows that countries with a high dependence on exports in general—not just those to 
the United States—also show little evidence of suffering greater slowdowns in 
investment spending. 
All told, we’re having trouble identifying a specific link between trade tensions 
and the global slowdown, but, considering how much smoke this issue is generating, 
we think there must be at least some fire. And while the role of trade policy 
uncertainty in the global slowdown is, shall we say, uncertain, nearly all observers 
agree that an intensification of trade tensions would be damaging. 
Your next exhibit identifies three scenarios for future trade policy. In our “good 
deal” scenario, we assume that at some point soon—maybe the G-20 Leaders Summit 
in Osaka at the end of this month—the United States and China reach a deal that rolls 
back most of the tariffs each side has levied on the other over the past year. 
Additionally, we assume not only that no tariffs are imposed on Mexico or on 
imported autos, but that ongoing discussions between the relevant parties 
significantly diminish fears of such actions—I wouldn’t bet my nest egg on this, but I 
suppose it is possible. As indicated by the blue lines in the panels below, such an 
event would be a positive surprise to markets, would raise U.S. real GDP growth, and 
would be worth about one extra rate hike on the federal funds rate. 
Our baseline outlook, indicated by the black lines, is underpinned by a somewhat 
gloomier scenario: The United States and China don’t reach a deal that would roll 
back past tariff hikes; instead, a “ceasefire” ensues in which tariffs are kept at their 
present level but no further hikes take place. We don’t assume tariff hikes on Mexico 
or autos, either, but continued uncertainty keeps markets and businesses on edge. 
This scenario seems close to the center of market expectations, so we don’t foresee a 
significant equity response as this arrangement becomes apparent. 

Finally, the red lines trace out the effects of an “escalation” scenario in which all 
remaining imports from China are tariffed at a 25 percent rate, and so are all imports 
from Mexico, as the trade truce breaks down. We do not think this is the most likely 
scenario, but it seems much more than just a tail risk. To summarize the results: 
not good. 
Given the profound uncertainties posed by the global outlook, foreign central 
banks are likely to keep interest rates low for years to come, as shown in your next 
slide. And that tendency will be reinforced by the continued quiescence of inflation, 
shown on the right. Indeed, just today at the ECB conference in Sintra, Mario Draghi 
signaled the possibility of offering more stimulus. These prospects raise the question 
of whether, if the global economy does manage to avoid trade policy catastrophes or 
other disruptions, low-for-long interest rates will pose financial stability risks. This 
concern may apply particularly to the corporate sector, an area that has received 
considerable attention of late. 
To set the scene for a discussion of corporate trends abroad, let me first briefly 
review developments in corporate leverage in the United States, shown in your next 
slide. Starting at the top left, as you know, U.S. nonfinancial business debt as a share 
of GDP is at peak levels. This borrowing is not to finance soaring investment, which 
has remained range-bound, as shown in the top middle panel. And it’s not because 
companies are hurting for cash: the top-right panel shows that net lending—broadly 
speaking, the excess of profits over investment—remains positive. Instead, 
corporations appear to be borrowing to fund share buybacks (on the bottom left) and 
M&A. And this has pushed up corporate leverage, the ratio of debt to the book value 
of assets, shown in the middle panel. In principle, higher leverage suggests there are 
less income-earning assets to support debt service, less value to recover in the event 
of default, and thus greater sensitivity to adverse shocks. However, U.S. leverage 
ratios have been flat for the past few years, and, as shown on the right, in the current 
favorable environment defaults remain very subdued. 
Do we see concerning increases in corporate debt and leverage in some of the 
major foreign advanced economies, in which interest rates have remained even lower 
than in the United States? Let’s turn to the next slide. They said I’d never be able to 
squeeze all six foreign G-7 economies into one slide . . . and maybe they were right. 
[Laughter] But there is little evidence of corporate excess. Of the countries 
shoehorned into the top row, only two of them, Canada and France, have experienced 
significant increases in corporate debt levels (the black line) since the GFC, and only 
one of them, France, has experienced notable increases in investment spending (the 
red line). In the bottom row, only Canada has witnessed significant increases in 
corporate leverage. 
Therefore, to conclude, a world of low-for-long interest rates may be expected to 
encourage corporate leverage and risk-taking. However, looking at the major foreign 
economies, we haven’t seen it yet, perhaps in part because corporate caution and 
limited spending and borrowing may be one of the factors keeping interest rates down 
in the first place. So, for now, you can go back to worrying about trade policy, but 

we’ll be keeping an eye on the foreign corporate sector as well. I will now pass the 
baton to Sean. 
MR. SAVAGE.6 Thanks, Steve. I will be referring to the exhibits in the packet 
labeled “Material for Briefing on the Summary of Economic Projections.” Let me 
start with a few headline results. Almost all of you lowered your projections for both 
headline and core inflation in 2019, and most of you did so for 2020 as well. A 
majority of you lowered your projection for the unemployment rate in each of the 
three years, 2019 to 2021. Meanwhile, the medians of your real GDP growth 
projections were little changed from the March SEP. While the median of your 
assessment of the appropriate level of the federal funds rate was unchanged for 2019, 
the vast majority of you reduced your assessments of the appropriate level over the 
projection horizon. As a result, the medians of these assessments for 2020 and 2021 
declined 50 basis points and 25 basis points, respectively. As we heard in your earlier 
comments, many of you saw increased downside risks surrounding your projections 
for real growth and upside risks to your projections for the unemployment rate as 
reasons for these revisions, with some of you also pointing to increased downside 
risks to your projections for inflation. 
Regarding exhibit 1, while many of you increased your projections of real GDP 
growth this year, the median projection was unchanged in 2019 and little changed 
thereafter. This contrasts with your projections for the unemployment rate, shown in 
the second panel, which most of you reduced in all years in the projection period, 
resulting in a modest shift down in the medians for all years. The median of your 
projections for the longer-run unemployment rate also declined modestly; some of 
you now see the longer-run unemployment rate as 0.1 to 0.4 percentage point lower 
than in the March SEP. The vast majority of you continue to project that the 
unemployment rate will remain below your individual estimates of its longer-run 
level throughout the projection horizon. As you can see in the bottom panels, both 
the median and the range of your projections for headline and core inflation have 
come down notably in 2019; indeed, all of you reduced your projection for headline 
inflation, and almost all of you did so for core inflation. Most of you revised down 
your projections for inflation for 2020 as well, and the medians for both headline and 
core inflation declined 0.1 percentage point in that year. A number of you pointed to 
higher uncertainty or risks associated with inflation—including the risk that inflation 
expectations will drift lower—as reasons for the downward revisions to your inflation 
projections. A number of you also mentioned the effect of lower energy prices. All 
of you project that headline inflation will be in a range from 1.9 to 2.2 percent 
in 2021. 
Exhibit 2 reports your assessments of the appropriate path of the federal funds 
rate. As indicated by the red lines in the top panel, the median of your projections for 
2019 is 2.38 percent, unchanged from the March SEP and consistent with no change 
to the target range for the federal funds rate this year. But while many of you see no 
change in the federal funds rate before the end of this year as appropriate, some of 
 
6 The materials used by Mr. Savage are appended to this transcript (appendix 6). 

you would call for the federal funds rate to be 50 basis points lower by year-end. 
Relative to your March SEP submissions, the vast majority of you now consider a 
lower path of the federal funds rate throughout the projection period to be 
appropriate, in part reflecting your view that the risks to GDP growth and inflation 
have shifted to the downside, and the risks to the unemployment rate have shifted to 
the upside. Muted inflation pressures, trade developments, and weak business fixed 
investment were cited as reasons for downward revisions, as were developments 
abroad and risk-management considerations. Almost all of you judge that the 
appropriate level of the federal funds rate in 2020 and 2021 will be below your 
individual assessments of its longer-run level, a notable change from the March SEP. 
The green diamonds in exhibit 2 show the median prescription for the federal 
funds rate based on the Taylor (1993) rule, taking as inputs your individual 
projections for inflation, the unemployment gap, and the longer-run federal funds 
rate. The use here of the Taylor (1993) rule marks a change from the March briefing, 
when the projections shown were based on the Taylor (1999) rule. The Taylor (1993) 
rule does not act as aggressively to push up the unemployment rate toward estimates 
of the natural rate and therefore tracks closer to your projections than does the Taylor 
(1999) rule. That said, even with its more restrained response to the unemployment 
rate gap, the Taylor (1993) rule prescribes a notably higher path of the federal funds 
rate than almost all of you consider appropriate. The discrepancy suggests that the 
Taylor (1993) rule omits something that you regard as important in your 
consideration of appropriate policy. Your narratives indicate that trade-related 
uncertainties, risk-management considerations, and foreign developments may be 
factors informing your views of appropriate policy. 
Exhibit 3 presents your judgments about the uncertainty and risks surrounding 
your projections. As shown in the left panels, most of you view the uncertainty about 
real GDP growth and inflation as broadly similar to the average over the past 20 
years, while your views on uncertainty about the unemployment rate are roughly split 
between those who see similar levels of uncertainty and those who see higher 
uncertainty. In addition, a few of you see higher uncertainty about real GDP growth 
and several of you see higher uncertainty about the unemployment rate than was the 
case in March. As illustrated in the right panels, most of you generally judge the risks 
to the outlook for real GDP growth as weighted to the downside and for the 
unemployment rate as weighted to the upside, a substantial shift since the March SEP. 
Six more of you now see the risks to both headline and core inflation as weighted to 
the downside; none of you see them as weighted to the upside. And at the risk of 
sounding like a broken record, in your narratives, trade tensions and softer business 
investment—which a number of you saw as related to those tensions—were 
mentioned as sources of uncertainty, or downside risk to the growth outlook and 
upside risk to the outlook for the unemployment rate. And, again, developments 
abroad were mentioned. For the inflation outlook, the effect of trade restrictions was 
cited as an upside risk, while softer inflation expectations, the potential for a stronger 
dollar, and weaker domestic demand were cited as downside risks. I’ll end my 
briefing here and we’ll be happy to take any questions you have. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thanks very much. We have an opportunity for Q&A. Are there 
any questions for our briefers? President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I want to start with the briefing from Jeremy. I’ve been thinking about 
these charts on page 2—basically, the response of core inflation to the unemployment gap shock, 
and basically the price Phillips curve, the wage Phillips curve, and all of the subsequent material 
you presented. We stare at the same figures, and the question I get asked and I can’t answer is, if 
the wage Phillips curve is exactly as it always has been, why don’t we see wage growth 
outpacing trend, which we see in almost every other expansion that we’ve witnessed? And so 
either we have the gap wrong, or the Phillips curve looking the same isn’t quite right. How do 
you think about that? How should I think about that? 
MR. RUDD. Well, on page 4, panel 13, we have a model that does seem to track pretty 
well, as long as you take into account trend productivity. So the pass-through of lower rates of 
structural productivity to wages seems to be what’s holding compensation growth back in the 
face of a pretty tight labor market, and that’s been the way the staff has tried to square the circle 
of, okay, why aren’t we seeing a faster pace of compensation growth, given how tight the labor 
market is? 
MS. DALY. Can I follow up? This is often the case, though, that wage growth is lower 
than productivity growth plus inflation in the early stages of an expansion. It then hits trend, and 
then it exceeds trend, because employers are saying, “Well, I need workers, and so I’m going to 
raise wages past what is true for trend productivity growth and inflation.” And so, over time, 
that squares. And, in fact, it runs a little bit below those two variables. But the time dynamics 
seem different in this expansion, and I’m not sure how you square that. You can absolutely get it 

in the residual of productivity growth, but how do you think about why the time dynamics have 
changed? 
MR. RUDD. Well, another key factor is that this is using anchored price expectations—
which also is a departure from the past. So there’s a couple of things that seem to have changed, 
since probably the ’80s, about the wage-price process. Most important is that you don’t see 
wage-price spirals anymore. 
It looks like both wage growth and inflation are anchored by similar stochastic trends or 
similar long-run trends. That’s another piece, or maybe a shred, of circumstantial evidence that 
there’s some sort of expectations mechanism that is influencing both. But, for whatever reason, 
those two things seem to be holding. And it doesn’t seem to be the case that actual price 
inflation is feeding through to wage growth so much as wage growth is being determined by, say, 
long-run expectations which are, again, relatively stable. 
So that’s, again, a departure from past experience, which would lead to equations fitting 
over historical periods not working as well in recent periods. This equation here, again, is taking 
the staff’s view and trying to put it into a model. And the interesting thing is that what we 
assume is a relatively slow rate of productivity feed-through—in the sense that we have a long 
moving average of something that’s already a trend—and yet that seems to work pretty well. If I 
had to guess, I think that one thing that may be going on is that the trend in productivity growth 
is feeding through into wages a little faster. So when productivity growth is weakening, that 
might be a faster drag on wage growth. But I can’t prove that. The only evidence that I have is 
when I did similar work with time-varying models with a colleague, we found that these 
equations are surprisingly stable if you just use trend unit labor costs, which is what the vector 

autoregression (VAR) systems are using. In other words, you don’t allow for this longer moving 
average. 
Now, the problem is that all of that is really hard to pin down. The other problem, too, is 
that you’re imposing a restriction on these models, which is, in the long run, real wages are 
growing at the trend productivity rate, with real wages defined relative to this price expectation 
measure that may or may not be—I’ve experimented with relaxing that assumption. We’re 
trying to pin down better what the productivity feed-through is, those sorts of things. It’s hard to 
get any sort of good answer. What is true is that the model that I’m showing you outperforms a 
lot of other models that either use alternative slack measures or relax that restriction on the long-
term real wage–productivity relationship. 
MS. DALY. Thank you. 
MR. RUDD. But I really want to say that this isn’t dispositive in any way. I think this is 
really just saying that we don’t see an obvious way that our story is wrong. But that doesn’t 
mean that it’s right. That just means that we don’t see a really good reason to change it right 
now. 
MS. DALY. Okay. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. The first of my questions is for Jeremy. First of all, I 
appreciate and want to recognize your deep knowledge of the literature. [Laughter] 
MR. RUDD. At first mention, you didn’t wake up, so—[laughter] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I want to get back to this question of what the natural rate of 
unemployment is. And I really like this presentation, kind of digging into the different models 
and different equations and all of that. And, of course, the error bands are wide, but I’m trying to 

understand what I see as some space between the staff’s view and the view of myself and many 
around this table and just trying to understand that a little bit better. 
So the staff view is, the natural rate of unemployment is 4.6 percent, and my view would 
be closer to 4 percent. And when I look at figure 9 on your page 3—so, the green band—one of 
the things you see there is that you have seven statistical models. The judgmental estimate—
now, I know we’re in the output-gap space here. First of all, the output gap—the staff view is in 
the high end or near the high end of those models. So I’m curious about how you think about 
what the other models are telling you. 
I really want to go to this question of, when I look at the Brookings paper that economists 
from the New York Fed and Dallas did and former New York Fed colleagues did, they went very 
carefully through these demographic factors as you did in chart 15 on page 4. And I think they 
come to the same conclusion—that age, sex, educational attainment can explain something like a 
¾ percentage point decline in the natural rate since, say, 2005. And then I’m trying to 
understand—they get an estimate, and it’s roughly 4 percent for the natural rate, and your 
argument would be, it’s closer to 4½ or 4.6 percent. And so one of the things I realized, looking 
at this, is that the starting point actually matters. You start with roughly, in your charts, it looks 
like a 5.2 percent natural rate before the recession. You take off ¾ percentage point, and you get 
to something like 4½, 4.6. A lot of the estimates in the work I have seen suggest that the natural 
rate back in 2005 was closer to 4¾. You take ¾ off that, and you get 4. 
I’m curious about how much of this debate is—we actually agree on a lot of the 
fundamentals. We agree on the demographics. We agree on a lot of these things. But in the 
end, we just have kind of a different starting point of what the natural rate was a decade ago, and 
it gives us a different answer today, because, again, looking at the Brookings paper, we’re going 

through a very similar analysis that you do—and, coming to, in many ways, similar conclusions. 
We get this essentially ½ percentage point difference. I’m just curious how you think about that. 
MR. RUDD. The Brookings paper you’re referring to is the paper by Crump, Eusepi, 
Giannoni, and Şahin of the New York Fed. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Yes. 
MR. RUDD. I guess the first point I’d make is that our judgment is—at the time I last 
looked at this literature extensively, I thought it was a reasonable conclusion that about 5¼ 
percent was a reasonable estimate of the natural rate before the Great Recession. But maybe 
that’s not true anymore. Maybe people have, over time, as they have gotten more evidence and 
more data, revised it down. I don’t know. But if you look at these models, in panels 11 and 12, 
that natural rate estimate is slightly above the staff’s, and the starting point is slightly above 5.2. 
So it’s not clear to me that it’s necessarily—the question I don’t think is super well settled. 
These two models will give you different answers. 
The Brookings paper, I think, is trying to do exactly the same exercise that we’re doing, 
which is just trying to bring additional information to bear on the question of, where is the 
natural rate? It’s hard to use price data. Wage data help, but not a lot. So what other data can 
we bring to bear? 
The state-space models that are shown in panel 9 are bringing information about the labor 
market to bear—things like relationships between labor market variables. The Brookings paper 
is trying to do the same thing with job flow data. If you just look at the raw job-flow data, I 
think you do get an answer similar to 4.6. I think that that trend implies something like 
4½ percent for the natural rate. Then they add additional information—in this case, a forward-
looking expectations-based price and wage model. 

And so, again, that’s more information you can bring to the question that might help you 
pin down these things more precisely, but I think that what I’d want to do before I was really 
sure that that was where I wanted to take my estimate is check things like how robust is it to 
different specifications, how robust is it to changes in the type of data that I use to measure those 
concepts, things like wages or prices. That’s a lot of what these models are doing, and it gives 
rise to a pretty wide range. And so you want to understand how well the mechanisms that you 
think are at play are actually giving you the results that, in this case, would differ from the 4.6 
estimate that the staff uses as a judgmental estimate. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. One clarifying point—this difference in the view of 
underlying inflation is actually pretty important in their model, as it is in yours. So they do talk 
about if you have a 2 percent anchor versus 1.8—I still say, with the kind of point I make, I think 
we’re all seeing the same factors, but the lines are just a little higher or a little lower. I guess one 
of the problems with latent variables is, it’s pretty hard to know. Is the underlying number—
there’s a lot of uncertainty about that. I guess my positive point is that it seems like we’ve all 
looked at this data in different ways and come to the same conclusions about the factors that 
brought the natural rate of unemployment down. But we’re still left with this residual, maybe, 
disagreement across models about what the level is. I guess that’s really what I was asking 
about. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Okay. Well, I can be brief, because Mary and Vice Chair Williams 
made similar points—Governor Daly. President Daly. Sorry, I’ll get there. [Laughter] 
MS. DALY. I’m getting promoted every minute I sit here! [Laughter] 

MR. CLARIDA. Sorry, nervous here—it’s my ninth meeting, and I’m nervous. Okay. 
Page 1, chart 4—so, underlying inflation is at 1.8 percent. I think that number makes sense. 
We’ve discussed that. But in the out-years, the red shaded parts of the bar graph are showing a 
positive contribution of resource utilization to inflation. But in the logic of the presentation, 
where does that come? Because we haven’t seen that yet, right? So wages are in line with 
productivity and underlying inflation, and the staff’s estimate of the natural rate of 
unemployment is 4.6 percent, so, at some point, this is just going to kick in even though we 
haven’t seen it yet—is that basically the story? 
MR. RUDD. No, wages are in line with those factors and the unemployment gap. So 
wage growth is in line with the degree of tightness that we see in labor markets. The model that 
I was showing on page 4 has the staff’s unemployment gap in it. So the degree of labor market 
tightness that we think is currently present is what’s helping keep employment cost index (ECI) 
growth where it is. 
As far as the price component, my point in chart 7 is that it is going to be really hard to 
discern the influence of slack on inflation. So this decomposition in panel 7 is saying, yes, there 
is an important low-frequency role played by resource utilization. And into 2019, that was 
putting a bit of upward pressure over time on inflation. 
But compared to the kind of variability that you get from other factors like, say, import 
prices, or even just idiosyncratic price movements, it’s kind of hard to see that. Just like in 
panel 4, it’s a bit hard to see the contribution of the red bars doing much to the contour relative to 
more important factors, like where the trend is or some of these yellow bars, which give the 
contributions of idiosyncratic factors that we can’t explain in terms of the other fundamentals. 
Those dwarf the resource utilization contribution in some years. 

MR. CLARIDA. And we can probably follow up on this more later, because there’s a lot 
going on, but on page 6, the thought experiment here is—and I understand number 23. It’s really 
chart 22. So the story here is, people have expectations for underlying inflation of 1.8 percent, 
and the central bank would like to get that up to 2 percent. And the idea is, this is going to be a 
function of the window, or the length over which they’re running this. So I think I understand 
that. Is the argument that the central bank that is trying to get underlying inflation up to its target 
is going to have a welfare loss versus the case where people just stay at 1.8 percent forever? Is 
that the way I read this ratio? 
MR. RUDD. Yes. In this particular case, in this particular calibration— 
MR. CLARIDA. Yes. 
MR. RUDD. —and under these assumptions, what is happening is that if you just stay at 
1.8 percent, even though your target is 2 percent and your preference is for 2 percent, if people’s 
expectations were to stay at 1.8 percent, what you’re doing then is, you’re balancing your two 
goals. You’re trying to run the economy a little bit hotter than you would otherwise in order to 
get inflation a little bit higher than it would be otherwise. You are not going to perfectly match 
your zero output gap and be at 2 percent inflation, but you’re trying to get as close as you can, 
given those two competing goals. 
It turns out the situation is worse if you instead move to a world in which people begin 
updating their expectations, and they begin to drift up to 2 percent over time. That process takes 
a long time, and during that time inflation expectations are unanchored, which makes inflation 
control more difficult. So inflation stabilization is really easy when inflation stabilizes itself, and 
inflation basically stabilizes itself when expectations are anchored, and that situation, in this 
particular case, turns out to be better. 

That’s not going to be generically true. So if expectations were anchored really, really 
low, you could imagine, okay, that might then mean it’s better to just unanchor them and try to 
get back to 2 percent than to have them pegged at 1 percent. And that is, again, ignoring any 
considerations that might be really relevant, like the presence of the effective lower bound (ELB) 
or something like that. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. I don’t know if Charlie and Mary were going to keep on the same 
theme, because I was going to change the topic. So if they want to get onto the same thing— 
MR. EVANS. I have one on Jeremy’s theme just now. 
MS. DALY. And I am just emphatically participating in the discussion. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Oh, okay. [Laughter] I thought you were really rushing to get into 
the conversation. 
MS. DALY. No, that’s just my excitement. Go ahead. 
MR. EVANS. Well, I realize I haven’t been following the literature as well as I should, 
because I’m not that familiar with the framework that you— 
MR. RUDD. There’s apparently all sorts of rubbish out there nowadays. [Laughter] 
MR. EVANS. I have to admit, I continue to be struck by a question that Senator Toomey 
asked the Chair during a recent Monetary Policy Report testimony. I think the context was that 
he was saying, “I understand that the Fed is talking about inflation averaging or overshooting.” 
And he asked you something along the lines of, “Now, if inflation goes above 2 percent, aren’t 
you going to lose control of the price level?” It’s just like, 1.8 percent is okay; 1.9 percent is 
okay; 2 percent, I guess, is okay; 2.1 is death—total loss of control. 

And yet, in your analysis, Jeremy, if I’m reading this right, in the overshooting, which is 
the awful outcome that a lot of people think of, it’s going to take 14 years for inflation 
expectations to get up to 2 percent when people don’t know that we’re targeting 2.3 percent. I 
guess I’m not quite following all of the losses. I get the formulas for the loss function, but is it 
the case that inflation variability is dramatically higher in this case? 
MR. RUDD. Well, you have a very flat Phillips curve, for one thing, which means 
inflation control is inherently kind of difficult, and you’ve got reasonably large shocks that are 
hitting inflation. But the reason why it takes so long is simply that people aren’t updating very 
fast. So, in other words, this intermediate case corresponds to what’s, in effect, the 13-year 
estimation window. So you’re using a rolling 13-year regression— 
MR. EVANS. Are they getting to experience, say, 3 percent inflation very often, or— 
MR. RUDD. They’re getting it temporarily. 
MR. EVANS. They are? 
MR. RUDD. Well, there’s enough volatility in inflation that it kind of is going— 
MR. EVANS. I guess if I were going to think about this case more, I’d want some 
additional statistics, like, what is the variability of inflation? What do some of these shock things 
look like? Especially when you describe, “Well, we get stuck at 1.8 percent, so now I’m going 
to benchmark it against”—you know. It’s easy if they get “1.8. I can do inflation control.” 
We’re just lucky we’re not at 1¼ percent, where we’d be even worse off on one side. 
MR. RUDD. So I did actually try some experiments where, for example, you’re at 
1 percent, let’s say. 
MR. EVANS. Yes. 

MR. RUDD. Leaving aside how crazy the simulations look, that is a case in which there 
is a relative improvement to trying to unanchor expectations to get back to 2. In other words, if 
expectations are anchored low enough, then, at least in this model, it can make sense to have 
expectations become unanchored for a while— 
MR. EVANS. At the effective lower bound? You’ve got the zero lower bound at work? 
MR. RUDD. No, that’s not present in this model. That’s a serious shortfall of this 
model. The other shortcoming of this model is that there is nothing that even hints of rational 
expectations here. People are using very simple extrapolative rules to forecast inflation. They’re 
not trying to suss out what the Fed’s inflation goal is. They’re not trying to anticipate or evaluate 
what future policies will do. So, I think, for evaluating more sophisticated policies—like, say, 
average inflation targeting—you need a much better model. 
What this model is really just trying to say is, okay, let’s say that people—in the old days, 
we thought that the lagged inflation terms in Phillips curves reflected people using extrapolative 
rules in order to forecast inflation. And those extrapolative rules, you can imagine, would be 
updated over time as you get more data. But if you’re an econometrician and you’re doing that, 
then three observations, or four observations, aren’t going to have much of an effect on your 
coefficient. 
Even if you have a reasonably small rolling window—say, 10 years—it’s still going to 
take time for these underlying parameter values to update and, therefore, for you to realize that, 
okay, my average inflation expectation should be 1.9, 2.0 percent. And that’s really what this is 
capturing. But the key is that if this process is occurring and if it occurs slowly, then it is less of 
a problem. But if it occurs rapidly, it is more of a problem, because that means that any shocks 
that hit the economy are then also going to be used—you’re going to look at those data when you 

try to update your rule, and then you’re going to just become, essentially, more confused. It is 
going to take more time for your parameter values to settle down to something. 
And that’s sort of what’s going on here. Plus, it makes it harder for you, as a policymaker, to 
maintain inflation control, given the flat Phillips curve and the kinds of shocks that hit the 
economy. 
What you’re doing by having expectations becoming unanchored is basically putting 
more persistence back into inflation. You’re going back to the old days when things were more 
like an accelerationist model, and with that you can control inflation, because eventually you get 
back to where you need to be. But it also means that you have to do so by pushing against the 
economy a lot harder. You can’t just rely on things to wash out and go back to some anchored 
level. You have to actively do something in order to keep it there, and that might require you to 
jerk the output gap around in a way that you don’t find very good from the standpoint of your 
goals. 
MR. EVANS. Thanks. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard, then President Kashkari. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay. To beat on the dead horse here, I’m still on panel 22, 
“Outcomes under Unanchored Expectations,” page 6. This says that the relative loss increases 
with years of data in the estimation window. My interpretation of this was that this is a Phillips 
curve model, so what you’re going to have to do is run unemployment below the natural rate 
longer. That’s going to be a negative, in terms of loss, so this is what’s going to make the loss go 
up even though all you’re really trying to do is get inflation back to target. 

Plus, I didn’t really get what you were saying before, because expectations move so 
slowly here that you wouldn’t think that the volatility of long-run expectations would have 
anything to do with the loss, because it’s just inching back over 14 years. 
MR. RUDD. Again, one of the things that the original Orphanides and Williams paper 
shows is that, once you start having this updating process, you are increasing inflation 
persistence by a pretty noticeable amount. So inflation shocks now have longer-lived effects, 
because even if they’re entering a little bit, they’re entering pretty persistently into your updating 
process. 
Now, it is true that the assumption of this model is that you would care about a situation 
in which you had to deviate from your output gap goal of zero to push inflation up, and you 
might not— 
MR. BULLARD. Well, that’s why I wanted to talk about asymmetric loss functions, 
because, in that scenario, the Committee would probably be pretty happy. You’d be moving 
inflation back to target, and unemployment would be lower, and eventually inflation would get 
back to target. And we’d all consider that, I think, a better situation. 
MR. RUDD. What I would point out here, though, is, even though I’ve got the same 
balanced loss function that the Tealbook assumes, so I’m assuming an equal weight on 
deviations of unemployment—or, in this case, deviations of the output gap from zero, let’s say—
and deviations of inflation from the 2 percent inflation target. In a sense, because the Tealbook 
optimal control loss function uses a four-quarter change in measuring inflation and the current 
level of the unemployment gap, it actually implies you’re much more inflation-sensitive than you 
are output-sensitive. So you are much more worried about the inflation shortfall than you are 

about the output shortfall, especially in this model, which is couched in terms of the output gap 
and the period-to-period movements in inflation. 
MR. BULLARD. And I just want to make sure—on panel 17, column 4, you’ve got the 
2019:Q1 estimates using all these different models of underlying core PCE price inflation. This 
is a measure of long-run expectations derived from all these different models. Is this correct? 
MR. RUDD. This is a measure of the— 
MR. BULLARD. I think what’s interesting about this—and I guess this is your 
“takeaway”—is, no matter how you cut it via these different types of models here, you’re going 
to come up with something that’s less than 2 percent. 
MR. RUDD. Yes, I think that’s the basic “takeaway.” And, just to be clear: This is 
telling you what the inflation rate would return to if the gap were closed and there were no other 
shocks hitting the economy. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. 
MR. RUDD. And, yes, everything is pretty much below 2, according to these estimates. 
MR. BULLARD. Right. 
MR. RUDD. And these were all of the estimates that I could scare up. I’m not hiding 
any. [Laughter] 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. This is more of a comment than a question. I don’t know what the 
process is, how you decide what goes in the Tealbook in a box. You’ve got lots of very 
interesting boxes. It’s my humble opinion that something like this would have been great in a 
box to give us a chance to read it in advance and then talk about it with our staffs. It’s just 

harder to understand fully what you’re presenting to us here in real time in the meeting. But I 
appreciate your doing the work. 
CHAIR POWELL. Back to President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. My question is on trade. So, Steve— 
MR. KAMIN. Really? [Laughter] 
MR. ROSENGREN. As I listened to your presentation, it seemed that what you showed 
was that the tariffs to date don’t seem particularly related to leaving a big trace in the investment 
data. That seems consistent with the stock market remaining fairly high. It seems consistent 
with the Tealbook forecast that, between March and now, has actually gone up from 1.8 percent 
for real GDP growth to 2.1 percent for this year. It seems consistent with the median SEP 
forecast of real GDP growth that’s unchanged at 2.1 percent from those same two dates. What it 
seems inconsistent with is the earlier charts on finance that include a 120 basis point decrease of 
the 10-year rate. So as you think about Lorie’s presentation and charts and the 10-year Treasury 
going down by 120 basis points and those other sets of observations that seem more consistent 
with your story, how would you square those things? 
MR. KAMIN. Well, for starters, the easy response to your question is that the huge 
decline in yields in response to these concerns has provided offsetting support to the economy in 
response to this perceived negative shock. 
I’m just saying that that must explain part of it. The markets, confronted with this 
adverse shock to trade policy, which they viewed as having these large, pernicious effects on the 
economy, expect more accommodation, which they are getting not just from the Federal Reserve, 
but from all over the world, and that provides some offsetting support. So I’m just saying, that’s 

part of the story, but I don’t know that that’s the totality of the story, and so we’re just doing all 
we can to look at these linkages and find a connection. 
MS. TEVLIN. So I think when you just compared it to the 1.8 percent, you were talking 
about March. Is that right? 
MR. ROSENGREN. Yes. 
MS. TEVLIN. Okay. One thing to keep in mind is that, between March and April, we 
changed the federal funds rate path. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Changed our forecast, yes. 
MS. TEVLIN. And so we got a much stronger real GDP path this year. If you just 
compare the GDP growth rate between where we were at the April FOMC meeting and where 
we are now, we’re down two-tenths. We have a reasonably strong first half of the year, so we 
actually took down the second half of the year pretty considerably. And the kind of information 
that Lorie was talking about and a lot of other things we’ve seen on investment, in terms of 
business sentiment, orders, profits, all that kind of stuff, that’s what informed that comparison. 
So it’s just the March/April thing—because we changed the federal funds rate rule, it kind of 
confuses the issue a little bit. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Just a follow up. That’s a very fair comment, and the second half is 
weaker, but it’s interesting it doesn’t persist very long. So your forecast hasn’t changed that 
much for next year, and neither has the SEP. It’s just interesting that it would be so short lived if 
it was--and it may be that tariffs get reversed. There are a lot of explanations. But it’s 
interesting that it’s not leaving that much of a trace in the data, which, again, gets a little more 
consistent with Steve’s comments. 

MS. TEVLIN. Right. I mean, I think, as Steve said, we have this sort of cease-fire 
baseline, and so there will be an effect on investment but it’s not going to keep dragging us down 
into a recession. We’re going to see a real slowing in investment, but we have consumption and 
the labor market hanging in there. His other scenarios are much worse, but our baseline for trade 
policy isn’t that bad. 
MR. KAMIN. What’s difficult is just, there is this tremendous cacophony, right, of 
views expressing concerns about trade policy. It’s hard to know how much of that is reflected in 
actual and current cutbacks in spending. It’s hard to know how much of that is actually a 
reference to downside risks in the future. So that’s why we’re trying to do as much work as we 
can to try to line up objective measures of exposure to trade policy with outcomes, and we’re not 
finding too much. 
So, for now, our baseline doesn’t have more escalation of trade measures. We have only 
marked down our foreign outlook a touch in reflection of increased trade tensions and worries. 
But if there were an actual escalation of trade tensions and we were able to see it more concretely 
in cutbacks in investment and other spending, then we would probably be marking down our 
forecast by more. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Maybe just one thing to add, and then a question. I just think, in the real 
economy, business fixed investment on this kind of topic works with some lag. And so, your 
regressions—they’re four-quarter lagging—I just think what the Tealbook does, which is mark 
down the second half of this year, makes a lot of sense to me, in terms of how this stuff affects 
the economy. Things are pre-committed. Buildings are already under way. Things were in 
budgets. It takes a while to actually pull stuff back. So I just offer that. 

A question for Sean. On the Summary of Economic Projections, I like the chart that 
Lorie did, in terms of people who took rates down 50 basis points had one view of the world and 
people who kept rates the same had a different view of the world. Did you see the same thing 
when you went through our responses? 
MR. SAVAGE. I would preface by noting, maybe, the same caveat that Lorie did, which 
is, it’s obviously qualitative. But I think that there was some flavor of folks who mentioned the 
trade tensions in a sense of “I’m cognizant of the risks associated with these. It hasn’t shown up 
tremendously in data, and, therefore, I’m going to continue to watch it.” And perhaps those 
people were a bit skewed more toward one end of the distribution. And then the folks that were 
a little bit more inclined to see uncertainties regarding trade as more present and accelerating and 
likely to persist—a few of those, I think, made some comments. But it’s a little difficult to say 
quantitatively without—some people didn’t elaborate with respect to trade uncertainty versus the 
path. 
MR. BARKIN. I just think it might be helpful to the Chair, in his press conference, to 
have clarity. That that would be a good way to characterize it? 
MR. SAVAGE: Yes, I would agree. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? If not, we’re going to go ahead and take our 
coffee break, and we’ll come back at 3:00 sharp. Thank you. 
[Coffee break] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Let’s get going again, and let’s begin the go-round on the 
economy with Governor Clarida. 

MR. CLARIDA. Well, thank you, Chair Powell. I’m going to begin with a snapshot and 
then talk about the outlook and then talk about risks to the outlook. After all, what we have are 
existing data. The rest is forecast and opinion. 
Over the most recent four quarters for which we have data, GDP growth has averaged 
3.1 percent, I think, with the revision. Over the past year, the unemployment rate is at 
3.8 percent, and the most recent reading, at 3.6, is near a 50-year low. Average monthly job 
gains, on average, are still in excess of the pace needed to find employment for new entrants; 
wages are rising broadly in line with productivity and underlying inflation; there is no evidence 
of cost push pressure; and, obviously, inflation is muted—probably more muted than we 
would like. 
Despite the disappointing labor market report that we received in May, I think what I just 
mentioned remains an accurate snapshot of where the economy is today, but snapshots are really 
for speeches and interviews. Because of long and variable lags, monetary policy decisions we 
make at this and each meeting must be based on an outlook and assessing risks to the outlook. 
So let’s talk about that. I think the data on momentum and important components of U.S. 
demand that we have received since our previous meeting, especially on capital spending and 
trade and manufacturing, have been soft. And I agree broadly with the staff’s assessment to 
revise down the outlook for second-half growth. I think they are currently at 1.7 percent, which 
is more or less in line with their estimate of trend growth. 
The economy does appear to be slowing, at least in GDP terms, and slowing faster than 
we might have thought seven weeks ago. In particular, the slowdown in terms of private final 
domestic purchases has been actually ongoing since the third quarter of last year. And as others 
have pointed out and I’m sure will point out, the drop in business fixed investment projected in 

this Tealbook is especially something to pay attention to: essentially no contribution from 
business fixed investment in the second half of the year in the projection. 
Now, of course, not all of the news since our previous meeting has been on the downside. 
In fact, household consumption, which is 70 percent of the economy, is certainly robust, and the 
recent data do indicate a pickup from the soft Q1 data on consumption. And, again, 
unemployment is, of course, at a 50-year low, but I note that in the staff projection, the 
unemployment rate does begin to pick up and move up toward the various estimates of u*. In 
sum, the baseline outlook under more or less current policy sees the economy transitioning from 
above-trend to trend growth and inflation rising reassuringly in the projection toward, but ending 
up somewhat below, our 2 percent objective. 
So isn’t this the soft landing that any central banker should seek to achieve? And while 
I’d like to answer “yes,” I believe the correct answer is that it is too soon to tell. And, quite 
frankly, I was more optimistic on a soft landing seven or eight weeks ago than I am now. To me, 
in contrast to what I thought after our previous meeting, I believe the risks to the outlook are 
tilting to the downside. And as a result, risk-management considerations should encourage us to 
assess the full distribution of future outcomes and not just the mean or mode of this distribution. 
And I would cite three factors that give me more cause for concern about the downside 
risks to the outlook than they generate excitement about upside surprises to the forecast. First of 
all, when we get back to Steve Kamin’s presentation, the outlook for the global economy 
continues to be marked down not only in Tealbook, but also in outside forecasts. I went back 
and looked. A year ago, the Tealbook projected global growth of 2.7 percent for this year, and 
that’s down to 2 percent now. Moreover, I think the recent escalation of trade tensions, 
regrettably, is no longer just a crosswind but is now becoming a headwind for the economy that 

may not dissipate over the policy-relevant horizon. Sluggish global real growth, of course, is a 
headwind for U.S. exports, and trade policy uncertainty cannot be a positive for business 
investment. 
Second, although PCE inflation is projected to rebound from its muted pace at present, 
the staff does not see it returning to the 2 percent target over the forecast horizon. Financial 
market signals of expected inflation have declined about 20 basis points since the new round of 
China tariffs was announced in early May and are now close to the depressed levels that we saw 
in late December. 
And although this is about tomorrow, I am glad to see acknowledgment in the statement 
that we will discuss tomorrow highlighting this move in inflation compensation. One of the 
reasons I see this as a downside risk is that I believe that the output gap is much smaller than 
does the staff. And, as a result, I see less upward cyclical pressure on inflation than they build 
into their forecast. 
My personal estimate of u* is 4 percent. And if I weren’t partial to round numbers, I 
might be at 3.9 percent. Recent work cited by others this morning—Crump, Eusepi, Giannoni, 
and Sahin, the paper presented at the Brookings conference—estimates a u* of 3.9 percent and, 
of course, with a standard error range that encompasses 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent. And so, 
importantly, with u* at 4 percent, or conditional on u* being 4, and a traditional Okun’s law 
coefficient, the output gap would be less than half of the staff estimate and could well be close to 
zero. 
I’ll conclude with one observation about markets. Although a lot of attention has been 
paid to the slight inversion of the yield curve that has happened since our previous meeting, I 
myself am more focused on the decline in five-year-forward TIPS yields over the same period. 

At the time of our December rate decision, five-year TIPS yields five years forward were about 
1 percent, and as recently as April, they were around 80 basis points. As of last Thursday, when 
I prepared these remarks, they were about 50 basis points, which is the lowest they have been 
since 2016. 
Together, falling forward real yields, in conjunction with falling breakeven inflation, 
suggest that the market’s expectations for growth and inflation have been marked down since our 
previous meeting. Of course, as always, there is noise as well as signal in financial market 
prices, but the direction, if not the magnitude, of these moves is consistent with concerns about 
downside risk, and I think it should be factored into our analysis. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Chair Powell. I wanted to start with wet conditions and 
flooding in the Eighth District. I think this is a very serious situation. The agricultural sector is 
definitely struggling. Generally speaking, farm income has not been great over the past couple 
of years. A lot of agribusiness was hoping for a better year in 2019. That isn’t happening. This 
is not abating. 
And then trade uncertainty is weighing on this sector as well—soybeans in particular, but 
other areas as well. So this is an exceptionally acute situation. We’re in mid-to-late June here, 
and it is really not abating. So I think that’s a sector that’s not doing well during 2019 that we 
should keep in mind. 
Another factor that’s influencing my thinking is the following anecdote from an Eighth 
District contact with global manufacturing assets. This contact called the U.S. economy “a 
mess” because of newly imposed tariffs, threats of additional tariffs, and elevated uncertainty in 

the global trade environment. This firm has capital expenditure and hiring plans on hold, and 
they’re in a wait-and-see mode to see what happens on the trade front. 
Comments like this one have convinced me that the ongoing global trade war is unlikely 
to be resolved over the forecast horizon. The “new normal” is persistently higher trade regime 
uncertainty. Future tariffs are unknown and could disappear or reappear at any time. In turn, I 
think this new, highly persistent, uncertain trade environment will be associated with slower 
global growth than otherwise over the medium term, which will likely also damp U.S. growth. 
I was in Hong Kong during part of the intermeeting period. My sense from there is that 
few expect an agreement between the United States and China in the near term or in the medium 
term. In addition, even if there was an outline of a deal, the odds of actual adoption and lasting 
implementation are close to zero. 
The narrative at this table during 2019 so far has been that trade tensions may soon abate, 
allowing more investment globally and, hence, faster growth. I’m suggesting replacing that with 
a new baseline narrative of persistently high trade-regime uncertainty feeding into slower U.S. 
real GDP growth. 
District contacts during the intermeeting period generally confirm the idea that 2019 
growth would be slower than in 2018, as has been long forecast by this Committee. Now, with 
elevated trade uncertainty, there’s a distinct risk that the 2019 slowdown will be sharper than 
previously anticipated. 
It’s true that backward-looking indicators like past labor market performance and Q1 real 
GDP growth seem to suggest that the economy will continue to perform well. Unemployment, 
for instance, is at a 50-year low. However, I do not think that backward-looking indicators will 
serve the Committee well in the current environment. If the sharper-than-expected slowdown 

actually materializes, unemployment will ratchet up disturbingly quickly, and it will be too late 
to effectively offset the downturn. 
Forward-looking indicators, which effectively take into account persistent trade 
uncertainty and other risks over the forecast horizon, seem to suggest significant trouble ahead. 
Disconcertingly, the 10-year/3-month Treasury rate spread is meaningfully inverted. This 
suggests that the market expects less real GDP growth and less inflation in the period ahead than 
are currently contemplated by the Committee. The 2-year/10-year spread is not yet inverted, but 
that’s because markets have priced in rate cuts by the FOMC over the next two years. If these 
forecasted rate cuts do not materialize, this spread will likely invert as well. 
Recession-prediction models based on the term structure of interest rates show an 
elevated risk of recession ahead. The term structure models—which attribute almost everything 
to noise—are not useful in this environment when trying to interpret this market-based signal. 
The 10-year and the 2-year are both down 45 basis points during the intermeeting period. 
This is an extraordinary move in the bond market. Similarly, and to echo Governor Clarida, the 
5-year TIPS breakeven has fallen below 1½ percent in recent trading, strongly suggesting that 
the Committee is unlikely to achieve the inflation target over the forecast horizon. Some of the 
movement is definitely due to oil prices, but oil prices can be a barometer of global demand as 
well. In the current situation, oil prices have fallen despite events on the supply side that 
normally would have caused substantial increases in prices, not decreases. 
Actual PCE inflation is running below target by a preferred measure. I think it is unlikely 
that this is due solely to idiosyncratic factors. If anything, we would prefer to be overshooting 
our target in the current circumstance, given our serial misses to the low side since 2012. 

The Dallas Fed trimmed mean does give some comfort on this dimension. I would 
welcome a discussion at the Committee here if we wanted to switch to the Dallas Fed trimmed 
mean as our preferred measure. We have not done so, so far. If we’re sticking with core PCE 
inflation, then that’s hurting our credibility if we don’t get that back to target. I would also base 
things on inflation expectations more than on a backward-looking measure of actual inflation. 
In sum, I think the Committee is a little bit out of position for the current circumstance. 
In tomorrow’s discussion I will suggest that we cut sooner rather than later, in particular at this 
meeting. I would like to re-center inflation and inflation expectations at 2 percent. As we 
discussed with the staff presentation, it is clear that longer-term inflation expectations are 
running below 2 percent. I think we can also take out insurance against potential trade 
uncertainty risks. If the trade-induced slowdown does not occur, it won’t be a problem, because 
all we’ll be doing is re-centering inflation and inflation expectations back at 2 percent more 
quickly. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Chair Powell. Because the outlook seems more 
bimodal at this time, my SEP submission was more difficult than usual to prepare. In one case it 
is assumed that concerns with trade disputes are positively resolved and markets are likely 
buoyed by the resolution of this key risk factor. Note that consumption has held up quite well, 
especially with a strong May retail sales number last Friday, which supports the notion that the 
economy may continue to be fairly robust. In the other case, a 25 percent tariff that directly 
affects U.S. consumers is placed on $300 billion of Chinese goods. China retaliates in ways that 
harm vulnerable U.S. firms, and markets likely react quite negatively. 

In this latter scenario, it is entirely possible that appropriate policy would entail possibly 
significant easing. Because the decisionmaking process determining tariffs is somewhat opaque, 
assigning probability for these two outcomes is quite difficult. As a result, in my SEP 
submission, I have made the assumption, rather than the forecast, that no additional tariffs are 
imposed, budget negotiations are not disruptive, and geopolitical problems do not heat up. 
Under those assumptions, the outlook is quite benign: Unemployment falls to 3½ percent, wage 
growth picks up, inflation gradually rises to above 2 percent, and there’s no need for a reduction 
in interest rates. And, if anything, the risks might be reasonably balanced. However, a negative 
outcome is much more than a tail risk. So while I’m not using this as a base case, it has a high 
enough probability that I view my forecast of a more benign outcome as having substantial 
downside risk. 
A similar problem arises in interpreting recent market movements. The decline in 10-
year Treasury yields is quite striking. Over the past year, the rate has been as high as 
3¼ percent, and, at only a little over 2 percent now, it is currently at its lowest point since 2017. 
If bond market participants see the risk of further trade deterioration as quite high, perhaps even 
higher than I do, then investors will seek to hold more long-term Treasury securities. After all, 
Treasury securities would likely appreciate in the event of a negative trade shock, particularly if 
that is accompanied by easing of monetary policy. 
On the other hand, equity prices are only somewhat depressed, sending a less clear signal 
of trade concerns, potentially because they assume a monetary policy response. Overall, this 
reckoning also seems roughly consistent with a stock market that is modestly down in the United 
States, more significantly down in China, and exhibiting a lower yield on U.S. Treasury 

securities. In effect, financial markets, especially bond markets, are even more concerned about 
the likelihood of a trade meltdown than most macro forecasters. 
Discussions with my contacts in the District seem interestingly bifurcated as well. When 
I talk with small businesses, they concede that trade is a risk but seem to be taking little action. 
Instead, they are acting as if any trade disruptions will be temporary. Their major complaint is 
the scarcity of labor rather than the risks from trade. 
On the other hand, larger firms are being more proactive, assessing their supply chain 
exposure to China, diversifying their supplier base, and preparing for a rockier outlook. Most of 
these larger firms are viewing the heightened uncertainty surrounding the discourse on trade as 
having the potential to fundamentally disrupt their global supply chain regardless of how the 
China negotiations play out in the near term. To them, trade disruptions for noneconomic 
reasons, such as were threatened with Mexico, further raise the level of uncertainty regarding the 
outlook for trade and for supply chain management. 
I fear that the actions taken by larger firms to manage their supply chains will have some 
unfortunate economic consequences. Diversifying across suppliers to minimize tariff exposure 
implies choosing suppliers that will likely not be the most efficient, leading, over time, to more 
expensive goods. Restrictions that prohibit the use of equipment from certain technology 
suppliers could lead to communication security standards that vary significantly across countries, 
which may also make the global economy less productive over time. 
While in the past I had trouble visualizing what large negative productivity shocks look 
like in an advanced economy, recent events are making that much easier to envision. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 

MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Since our previous meeting, the headwinds 
buffeting the U.S. economy have increased. Deteriorating trade negotiations between the United 
States and China and the politicization of tariffs in the negotiations with Mexico have rattled the 
nerves of many of my contacts, and we’re very exposed to trade in the 12th District. 
But I heard similar anxieties on the other side of the Pacific. During my recent trip to 
Singapore, East Asian business leaders expressed concerns that the foundational trading 
relationships and the basic supply chains underpinning the global economy are under stress. As 
President Rosengren mentioned, they were very nervous that people are already unwinding or 
moving these basic relationships in an effort to offset predicted trade negotiations. So both here 
and abroad there is a growing sense that trade policy uncertainty will be with us for a while—a 
new normal, as President Bullard put it. 
As I noted in January, such uncertainty acts like a negative demand shock, depressing 
both economic growth and inflation as businesses and consumers pause on investment and 
spending plans. And in the 12th District, I am definitely hearing this from my business contacts 
who are being cautious, tabling more risky ventures, and generally getting prepared for slower 
growth ahead. This precautionary behavior likely explains some of the recent weakness in U.S. 
business investment, although, as Steve Kamin put it, we don’t see it in the data, we’re already 
starting to see it in marginal projects. 
So the counterfactual that it could have been faster is something we don’t observe, but 
my business contacts say that they are doing it. More importantly, it may signal further loss of 
momentum in the domestic economy. And, notably, I think, from my vantage point, these 
uncertainties come at a time when global growth is already slowing and financial market 
conditions are tightening. So many headwinds are blowing against the U.S. economy and, 

overall, are stronger than they were when we last met. These headwinds are showing up in 
projections of downside risks to the outlook. And two separate work streams or analyses by 
researchers at the San Francisco Fed focus on trying to quantify these downside risks by 
measuring how financial markets price the risk of returning to the effective lower bound. 
The first one examines interest rate options, and the authors there find that the probability 
of monetary policy being constrained by the ELB three years out has doubled over the past 
month. Another reading on this type of tail risk comes from the San Francisco Fed’s term 
structure models. This analysis indicates that the risk of hitting the ELB has risen about 
17 percentage points during the past nine months and is near 25 percent today. And that’s 
somewhat higher than Tealbook estimates but somewhat lower than the estimate that Lorie 
reported, but it has all kind of moved up over the past several months. This suggests that the 
recent fall in yields is not simply a shift in the risk premium, but also reflects an assessment of 
higher real-world tail risk probabilities. 
So if I could step back and put all of this together, I now expect real GDP growth to slow 
in the second half of this year and growth for all of 2019 to come in just above or at trend, and 
this is concerning. 
Now, slower growth to trend is not, on its own, worrisome. As Governor Clarida said, 
“This could be the soft landing that we all wanted.” But headline and core PCE inflation are 
running at just 1.5 percent over the past 12 months, and slowing growth only serves to lessen 
upward pressure on future inflation. 
So if I take this into account and I revise down my inflation projection for this year, then 
slower growth, softer global inflation, declining oil and commodity prices, an appreciating 

dollar, and prices and wages that show few signs of accelerating all give me pause and have 
lessened my confidence that we’re on track to achieve our 2 percent inflation goal. 
Now, notably, the recent weakness in inflation that we’ve been discussing for the past 
seven years runs contrary to the idea that the economy has large output and unemployment gaps. 
So in preparation for this SEP round, the San Francisco Fed team revisited our estimates of both 
the growth of potential output (g*) and u*. On g*, evidence from standard growth accounting 
models continues to point to a potential growth rate of about 1.7 percent per year, reflecting 0.5 
percentage point labor force growth and 1.2 percent trend productivity growth. So we didn’t 
revise that, and we’re at the lower end of the SEP—but right in line with the Tealbook. 
Thinking about u*, there I think things are more challenging, as I indicated in the 
question period. If we rely on our standard methods that estimate long-run u* on the basis of 
demographic changes in the labor force and the historical matching function—the relationship 
between firms and workers—it’s actually quite hard to generate estimates of u* below 
4.5 percent even when you move the starting points around or you use different window lengths, 
as Jeremy noted in his presentation. 
But this concept of a very long-run and highly backward-looking u* may not be useful 
for calibrating monetary policy in this world. And this point is evident, I think, in the continued 
misses on inflation, as many in the room have mentioned. So San Francisco researchers 
considered an alternative model that borrows from the techniques of Thomas Laubach and Vice 
Chair Williams to uncover the natural rate of interest, r*. Using a suite of alternative 
specifications of state-space models, the San Francisco Fed staff concludes that the 
noninflationary rate of unemployment, a different concept than the natural rate, has been on a 
downward trend during the entire expansion. And this finding is in line with the assessment in a 

recent Brookings paper by the staff from the New York Fed and the Dallas Fed, and in all of 
those cases, they find this downward trend. 
Based on these estimates, I have lowered my u* to 4.2 percent. But, frankly, the 
structural factors that underlie the downward trend have their own momentum and may very well 
continue to push u* down. So, for me, it was a complete judgment call whether to go to 4.2 
percent, which was the estimate that the state-space models are coming up with right now, or go 
to 4, or even go further down. So the confidence bands around these are wide, but the risks of 
being wrong, to me, are all tilted to be lower, not higher. The bottom line is that unemployment 
gaps do not appear as large when you think about a noninflationary rate of unemployment as 
they do when you think of a classic natural rate of unemployment. And I think that’s worth us 
taking into consideration as we think about monetary policy. 
Now, it’s also possible, and many around the table have mentioned this, that ongoing 
realizations of inflation weakness may, in fact, be transitory. But I would argue that, with years 
of continued misses and models that are very far from perfect at distinguishing permanent from 
transitory, we might want to consider whether the temporary factors that we keep counting are in 
fact, unmeasured, more permanent changes in the dynamics of the economy that we’ve just 
simply failed to uncover right now. And that’s really worth us thinking about. 
Whatever the cause, persistently weak inflation readings run the risk of softening 
inflation expectations. And while I still have them anchored at 2 percent in my outlook, 
incoming data on expectations are worrisome and give me pause. So, given the landscape I just 
described—growing global headwinds, slower domestic growth, tighter financial conditions, and 
especially softer inflation—I have revised down my policy rate path to be more accommodating 
in support of our goals. 

And, notably, when you look at the SEP and you see that I haven’t revised down very 
much my outlook for real GDP growth, it’s because I have a more accommodating policy rate 
path that supports that growth. And that’s how I get to 2.1 percent real GDP growth and 
inflation that continues to move back to target. I will describe this revision in more detail 
tomorrow. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Most of my contacts continue to describe their 
current domestic business as relatively solid, but there has been a noticeable change in their tone 
about the outlook since the previous round. Confidence has declined even among some 
executives whose businesses currently are doing well. For example, I heard from two CEOs of 
large global manufacturing corporations that there has been a dramatic drop in sentiment among 
their peers since the first quarter. This increased nervousness has not yet translated into softer 
activity for their own business lines, although one indicated that activity had not yet declined 
because the firm was working through order backlogs. 
In contrast, a major steel maker has already seen a rapid deterioration in sales and in 
pricing for its products. Energy was the only sector in which their demand remained good. 
However, not all manufacturers were downbeat. One major automaker was fairly optimistic, as 
solid light vehicle sales in May and a healthy backlog of orders for medium and heavy trucks had 
made them more comfortable about the domestic outlook for the remainder of the year. 
Of course, increased trade tensions and slowing growth prospects abroad are the major 
sources of the general trepidation we are hearing. Several directors reported delays in shipments 
and supply chain disruptions, particularly with regard to China. And one said that trade 

uncertainty had led to some large urban-area logistics and distribution center construction 
projects being put on hold. 
We are beginning to hear about more nontariff responses to trade tensions. Some 
directors reported a backlash in China against American brands and increased regulatory scrutiny 
of American firms operating there. Some of this seems kind of ticky-tacky, like suddenly being 
cited for small business regulatory transgressions that were never cited before in China. But my 
contact thought that it was intentional, and that the temperature was rising. 
Another director who is in higher education described a further slowdown in the flow of 
international students to U.S. colleges. Notably, we have heard that the Chinese government is 
now actively discouraging study in the United States. She also noted that the policy environment 
has led to an erosion of engagement between the Chinese and American research communities. 
Perhaps some of these reactions will be tempered now that tariff threats against Mexico 
have faded, at least for the moment—that’s among the business community. However, several 
contacts noted that trade policy has a Whac-A-Mole feel: One problem goes away, and another 
pops up. Moreover, many CEOs appear to have little confidence that tensions with China or the 
slower growth risks in Europe will end anytime soon, and they may well extend beyond 2020 
into 2021. 
To summarize, businesses are still operating in an economic environment with good 
fundamentals, and their business reports seem consistent with an economy growing around 
2 percent. However, there has been a notable decline in sentiment that seems different this round 
and, should it persist, would be an important source of downside risk to growth. 
With regard to wages and prices, the sparseness of commentary this round was telling. 
Despite seemingly tight labor markets, I don’t recall any reports of faster wage gains. A large 

temporary help agency mentioned that wage growth is stable and perhaps even slightly 
decelerating. This stabilization comes after many consecutive reports of rising year-over-year 
wage increases for temp workers. 
Regarding prices, I heard only sporadic reports of changes in materials costs, and these 
tended to be on the downside. There were no accounts of downstream price increases other than 
the pass-through of tariffs. This is a marked change from early in the year when there was much 
more commentary about building wage and price pressures. 
For the national outlook, my growth and inflation forecasts have not changed much from 
my March SEP. That is because I am now conditioning on more accommodative monetary 
policy, much for the reasons cited by President Daly. I have two rate cuts before the end of 
2019. I see real GDP expanding by around 2 percent this year and next. I then expect a 
moderate slowing in growth in 2021, largely reflecting a declining impulse from fiscal policy. 
Later in the projection period, my forecast has the unemployment rate beginning to increase 
gradually, but at the end of 2021, unemployment still remains about ½ percentage point below 
my 4.3 percent estimate of the long-run neutral rate. 
For inflation, I marked down my 2019 forecast for core PCE ¼ percentage point. 
Compared with the Tealbook, I am now assuming somewhat more persistence to the past few 
months’ disappointingly low readings on core inflation. However, I am projecting that inflation 
will move up to target in 2020 and will overshoot by two-tenths in 2021. This is an explicit 
design feature of my forecast, as it has been for some time. I feel that some modest overshooting 
is necessary to bolster the credibility of our symmetric inflation target. If I forgot to mention it, I 
am SEP submission number 4. 

In light of this year’s weaker inflation developments, I now feel the need for two rate cuts 
in my policy rate path for 2019 to generate this inflation overshoot. I will discuss this rationale 
for the change in more detail tomorrow, but, in short, given where inflation pressures are today, I 
believe more tangible accommodation is likely to be needed to communicate strongly our 
commitment to a symmetric 2 percent target, lift inflation expectations, and achieve some 
modest overshooting within the current forecast window. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Overall, the reports from District contacts tell us 
economic activity in the Fourth District continues to grow at a modest pace. The contacts have 
become more concerned about downside risks. The Cleveland Fed staff’s diffusion index, which 
measures the difference in the percentage of business contacts reporting better versus worse 
conditions, was 17 in June, in line with readings seen so far this year. 
Some manufacturing firms, especially those that have global exposure, reported softer 
demand, and freight contacts have seen slower shipments this year but said this might be an 
offset to shipments that were pulled forward last year to avoid tariffs. Announcements of 
potential new tariffs on imports from China and Mexico have weighed on business sentiment but 
have not yet resulted in much pullback in activity. Retailers are particularly concerned about the 
expansion of Chinese tariffs to consumer goods. 
District firms with plants in Mexico are particularly concerned about possible Mexican 
tariffs, as it’s not just a question of their reorienting supply chains in response. One of our 
directors from a major auto company is very skeptical that tariffs on Mexican imports will result 
in more jobs in the United States: Given the wage differentials, the labor-intensive work would 
remain in Mexico, and if any work did return to the United States, it would be highly automated. 

Some manufacturers indicated that new tariffs will compress their profit margins more 
than the earlier tariffs did because they have limited ability to raise prices, especially if demand 
softens. Indeed, price pressures in the District have eased since last summer, with the majority 
of firms reporting they haven’t changed prices in recent months. Even firms not directly exposed 
to the tariffs expressed concern that the renewed uncertainty will weigh on sentiment and 
investments. Some contacts are beginning to reassess pending capital projects, and some smaller 
firms are holding off on acquiring financing for new projects because of the uncertainty 
surrounding trade policy and tariffs. 
Despite firms’ concerns, District labor market conditions remain strong. The 
unemployment rate edged down again in April to 4.2 percent, its lowest level so far in this 
expansion and well below the Cleveland staff’s estimate of its longer-run normal level. Year-
over-year growth in payroll employment remained at about ¾ percent in April, well above the 
Cleveland staff’s estimate of its longer-run trend. District firms continue to cite the difficulty in 
finding skilled workers as their primary challenge. 
Regarding the national economy, incoming data over the intermeeting period were 
mixed. So far, the economy appears to be slowing toward trend as anticipated, but some of the 
data raise the possibility that the slowdown may be more significant. In my view, the most likely 
outcome remains that output growth and employment growth will slow toward trend over the 
forecast horizon, and that inflation will gradually rise to 2 percent. But downside risks for this 
forecast have risen, and I now believe the risks are weighted to the downside. 
Output growth has slowed in the second quarter after stronger-than-expected growth in 
the first quarter. While the monthly readings have been volatile, the overall data suggest that 
consumer spending and sentiment remain solid. On the other hand, business spending has 

weakened, and manufacturing activity has been soft. While earnings are supportive of continued 
growth, data on new orders and shipments do not point to a pickup in investment in the near 
term. 
Now, the labor market readings are consistent with continued expansion. Since our 
previous meeting, the unemployment rate has fallen to 3.6 percent, its lowest level in nearly 
50 years, and the broader U-6 measure fell to 7.1 percent, its lowest level of the cycle. These 
readings are well below my revised estimate of the longer-run unemployment rate. My estimate 
had been 4½ percent, but, given that inflation has remained stable and wages have not greatly 
accelerated, I now estimate the longer-run unemployment rate to be in the 4 to 4½ percent range. 
Monthly payroll job growth has averaged about 150,000 over the past three months. This 
is a step-down from last year’s strong pace of over 220,000 jobs per month, but it’s well above 
trend. As output growth slows toward a more sustainable pace, I expect job growth to slow as 
well but to be strong enough to absorb those entering the labor force, keeping the unemployment 
rate low. The question is whether job growth is slowing more than anticipated, and we’ll need to 
see more data before we can tell. 
The recent inflation readings have been soft. The headline inflation numbers were held 
down in part by declining energy prices, which will further weigh on inflation in the near term. 
Both headline and core inflation readings also reflect some idiosyncratic and likely transitory 
declines in selected components, including apparel and imputed prices of financial services. 
In April, the year-over-year change in the Dallas Fed’s trimmed mean PCE inflation 
measure edged up to 2 percent, and the Cleveland Fed’s experimental median PCE measure 
moved up to 2.6 percent. The Cleveland Fed median and trimmed mean CPI measures were 
2.7 and 2.2 percent, respectively, in May, in line with their levels for most of the year. 

Now, recent inflation expectation readings have been mixed. Five-year, five-year-
forward inflation breakevens declined since the previous FOMC meeting, but the Cleveland 
Fed’s five-year, five-year-forward measure was little changed in June. There was a softening in 
the latest reading from the Michigan and New York Fed survey measures that bear watching. 
In light of all these data, I revised down my inflation forecast for this year. My modal 
forecast assumes that inflation expectations will remain relatively well anchored and, coupled 
with strong labor markets and output growth slowing to trend, that will support inflation rising 
gradually back to 2 percent over the remainder of the forecast horizon. But I am now less 
confident in this forecast. 
With the revision I’ve made to my longer-run unemployment rate, the labor market is 
somewhat less tight than I previously thought. This, combined with softer-than-expected 
inflation readings, suggests that the trajectory of the federal funds rate path over the forecast 
horizon will need to be somewhat shallower than I had in my previous SEP submission, although 
my modal forecast still incorporates two increases in the funds rate over the forecast horizon: 
one next year and one the following year. 
This path reflects what might be called an “opportunistic approach” to inflation. So long 
as output is growing at trend and the labor market remains solid, we would be tolerant of the 
inflation undershoot we’ve been experiencing and not take deliberate action—that is, cutting 
interest rates to reinflate the economy. We’d allow the funds rate path to remain shallow to 
support rising inflation and not take deliberate action to curtail inflation overshoot so long as 
inflation doesn’t rise too much above 2 percent. In other words, we take advantage of supply 
shocks that lead to increases in inflation. 

Given the level of the funds rate, which is low but appears to be near neutral in my modal 
economic outlook, this type of strategy would seem to balance the risks to achieving our dual-
mandate goals. But the downside risks to my modal forecast have risen. The recent softness in 
business investment and manufacturing, the slow global growth, and increased uncertainty 
caused by trade policy and threats of tariffs all suggest greater possibility of a weak growth 
scenario in which economic growth slows more significantly, the unemployment rate rises, and 
inflation remains low for long. 
The declines in longer-term Treasury yields and other sovereign debt yields are consistent 
with investors placing a higher likelihood on this scenario. And in this scenario, the economy’s 
short- to medium-term equilibrium interest rate would move down, and we would need to move 
the funds rate down as well in order to sustain the expansion and foster achievement of our 
longer-run goals of maximum employment and price stability. 
Now, at this point, I’d prefer we take the time over the summer to gather more 
information on the economy and continue to assess our outlook and risks before making any 
adjustments in our policy rate. If we see a few more months of weak job growth, further declines 
in manufacturing activity, indicators pointing to weaker business investment and consumption, 
and declines in longer-term inflation expectation readings, I would view this as sufficient 
evidence that the base case is shifting to the slower growth scenario, and the Committee needs to 
act as necessary. 
On the other hand, over 2014 to 2016, the economy proved to be resilient to the 
slowdown in global demand, decline in oil prices, and appreciation of the dollar that caused a 
dropoff in investment and manufacturing activity, and the FOMC was patient. The economy 

could prove to be resilient again, and patience might again prove to be the best policy choice. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Regarding the forecast, I’m in general 
agreement with the staff’s near-term forecast of economic activity, but I’m less certain that 
deviations of inflation from our target will be merely temporary. 
Persistent undershooting of our target is a significant downside, and this deviation 
appears to be influencing expectations of inflation, as others have mentioned, as measured in 
financial markets. So, as you can imagine, the behavior of inflation and market-based inflation 
expectations is influencing my stance on policy, but I’ll defer that discussion until tomorrow. 
The downgrade in the staff’s projection is in line with the weaker sentiment that contacts 
are expressing in the Third District and is consistent with my own forecast as well. I also believe 
the risks to my forecast are weighted to the downside, and this weighting is in part due to our 
most recent manufacturing survey that will be released this Thursday. The current activity index 
will be roughly zero, a very significant drop, and recent readings are almost as weak as they were 
in 2015. Further, expectations of future activity remain at levels well below this time last year. 
Numerous firms express concerns about tariffs and the negative effects they are having on their 
businesses. Interestingly, one trucking firm indicated that freight activity is now consistent with 
the expansion ending over our forecast horizon, and many firms indicated that much of the tariffs 
will be passed on, inducing a subsequent decline in demand. 
I’m actually placing a little less weight on the latest survey, however, for a number of 
reasons. Surprisingly, there’s a large discrepancy between those who responded early to the 
survey and later respondents. The latter group still indicates that our manufacturing sector is 

solidly in expansionary territory. And so, actually, the timing within this survey was different, 
which tells you how volatile the situation is right now and what these firms are facing and the 
opaqueness of the process. 
As well, if you look at the data, the plans for future employment and capital expenditures 
in the survey still appear relatively solid. I think there are mixed signals when you get under the 
hood of what our respondents are saying, even though the headline number comes out weak. 
In terms of the labor market, as of April, the labor market in the region appears quite 
healthy, with employment growth of around 1 percent and an unemployment rate that fell to 
3.8 percent, the lowest rate in our District for the expansion. Particular strength was shown in 
the “eds and meds” and in leisure and hospitality. Supported by strong fundamentals, 
consumption activity has picked up a bit, with car dealers reporting a higher volume of sales and 
service-sector firms indicating modest growth. The District’s consumers remain confident as 
well. 
So, to summarize, the District’s economy is growing modestly, but that growth is almost 
entirely driven by the consumer, which is, I think, in line with what we’re seeing nationally. 
Thus, the expansion seems to be resting on somewhat shakier ground. As a result, I have slightly 
revised my forecast of economic activity and unemployment. And the staff forecast and mine 
are pretty similar. I now envision 2019 growing at 2.1 percent and 2 percent in the succeeding 
two years. I have downgraded my inflation projection to 1.8 percent on core PCE, and, as I’ve 
mentioned, I’m concerned that there are significant downside risks to that assessment. 
In keeping with the tenor of my forecast, I now anticipate no fund rate increases over the 
forecast horizon and have lowered my assessment of the neutral federal funds rate to 2.5 percent. 
While I’m not currently forecasting a rate cut, I view that possibility as within the planning 

horizon, and the probability of that occurring has increased. More on that tomorrow. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I see real strength in the consumer part of the 
economy, confirmed by last week’s retail sales report. For color, two weeks ago, I had a session 
with the CFOs of six of the country’s largest consumer companies and talked to two of the 
country’s largest credit card companies. They couldn’t have been clearer. After a slow start to 
the year, they are seeing very healthy consumer spending, and that spending is continuing. And 
a strong consumer, of course, makes sense, given the strength of the job market. For example, 
the Richmond Fed’s national Non-Employment Index continues to be at all-time lows, and our 
Fifth District manufacturing wage index hit its all-time high. 
Like you, I am less positive on business investment. Nationally, shipments and orders for 
nondefense durable goods continue to weaken, and manufacturing IP has been falling since the 
beginning of the year. In our District, the regional manufacturing survey has weakened 
considerably. As you know, like President Daly described, I believe business confidence is 
critical for growth, for investment, for pricing, and for employment. At our previous meeting, I 
was hopeful that the uncertainty around the beginning of the year had started to fade. 
Unfortunately, the latest developments in trade, both in China and in Mexico, have hit business 
confidence hard. 
The Duke CFO survey, which is soon to be partnered with the Atlanta and Richmond 
Federal Reserve Banks, has a significant drop in business optimism from last quarter and across-
the-board drops in expected investment spending to levels closer to its December expectations 
rather than those in March. What is happening? I want to argue that business uncertainty has 

become business certainty. On China, my contacts tell me, like they are telling you, that they are 
now convinced that trade conflict will last. After a year of wait-and-see, they are now taking 
action, moving production to other countries. 
International companies who export from the United States say they are doing the same. 
In many cases, this will take a year-plus. Supply chain reengineering is complex and costly, and 
lead times can be long. This shift could constrain domestic investment and reduce corporate 
profits as transition costs are incurred, operating costs increase, and quality potentially suffers. 
They worry that the tariffs won’t be as inflationary as we might presume. They see industry 
overcapacity as the stranded facilities continue to manufacture under a different brand. They see 
retailer and competitor response limiting pricing power. And they see end-customer price 
elasticity affecting demand or driving trade down. 
But the rubber truly hit the road on Mexico—or maybe I should say, the axle hit the road. 
Yes, tariffs have been avoided for now, but the reality that the rules of trade will be volatile for 
some time, as tariffs are used as a negotiating tool, will deter investment. 
It is difficult to plan expansion when the assumptions aren’t clear. I hear my business 
contacts saying they will hold pat until this cloud passes. As an example, I have heard multiple 
contacts tell me their strategy now is to manage the customer mix rather than expand the 
customer base. And this type of strategy may protect short-term profits but doesn’t support 
growth. 
As a result, I am very supportive of the Tealbook downgrade of prospects for business 
investment and would go even further toward the scenario outlined in the Risks and Uncertainty 
section. Accordingly, I have marked down 2020 real GDP growth in my SEP submission, and, 
in common with the Tealbook, my balance of risks is tilted to the downside. I am watching 

particularly closely investment in both equipment and structures, two sectors identified in a 
recent NBER paper by Richmond and San Francisco Fed economists and Mark Watson as 
having an outsized effect on the economy. 
On inflation, I do recognize its recent weakness, but I’m hopeful that April was a signal 
of renewed strength. If I may transfer the word from the previous meeting’s policy statement, 
we should be patient here. First-quarter uncertainty damped pricing power. Some of the tax cuts 
have been passed on to consumers as I was reminded when I got a recent refund from my electric 
utility. 
And we should remember that we pivoted our rate path quite a bit at the beginning of the 
year, and that effect could well take some time to be realized. That’s why in my SEP submission 
I still have inflation returning to 2 percent. And, in the interim, I don’t feel we are so far from 
target. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The regional economy continues to expand 
at a moderate pace, but firms’ perceptions of general business conditions and their views of the 
outlook have certainly weakened. This isn’t a big surprise, given that Texas is a large exporting 
state and is somewhat even more levered than other Districts to global logistics and supply chain 
arrangements and the health of the global economy. While most of our business contacts are 
relieved by the avoidance of increased tariffs on Mexico, it is clear that that threat created trauma 
that has not yet gone away and may even have created some bit of a psychological tipping point 
that, to some extent, wore people out, and they haven’t recovered from it yet. They are still 
concerned about a ratcheting up of tariffs for China. While many of the contacts I speak with are 

hopeful, they almost universally are making contingency plans to prepare for downside 
scenarios. 
The net effect of all of this uncertainty is to create some chilling effect on cap-ex, other 
expansion plans, and to generally raise the overall belief that surprise policy events now are more 
likely either related to trade, related to FTC or Justice Department reviews of certain industries, 
or related to other policy decisions which could materially change the business outlook for 
specific industries. I think in response to all of this, most of the contacts I speak with are 
thinking more about how to, again, create more scale and are again renewing their examination 
of M&A activity so that they can be competitive. 
Our real GDP growth forecast for 2019 at the Dallas Fed is now approximately 2 percent. 
That compares to about 2¼, 2½ percent just six weeks ago. The Dallas trimmed-mean measure, 
as many of you have mentioned, is currently running at approximately 2 percent, and we expect 
it to end the year at approximately 2 percent. Evan Koenig and Jim Dolmas, who is here with 
me today—both are colleagues at the Dallas Fed—have written a paper that suggests the Dallas 
trimmed mean rate is still a good indicator of future headline PCE price trends. And on that 
basis, we continue to expect headline PCE inflation to drift up toward the end of this year, 
although still below our 2 percent target. 
We expect unemployment and other measures of labor market utilization to essentially 
move sideways for the remainder of 2019. Obviously, business uncertainties due to heightened 
trade tensions, as well as decelerating rates of global growth, are severe risks to the downside 
and bear watching. The question I have is whether these uncertainties will be persistent and 
translate to a more persistent material negative change to the outlook, and my own view is, it’s 
too soon to say. I think, as I said earlier, the psychological effect is here with us. It is still, 

though, our discussions suggest, a likely case in our conversations that trade tensions may 
actually improve. But, right now, the business community is looking at the glass half empty, not 
half full. That’s a pretty significant change, and it really just happened, we think, in the past six 
or seven weeks. We think we would need to see some material positive surprises to change that 
psychology, and so my own view is, we need to give this situation more time. 
On the positive side, we expect the consumer to remain strong in 2019, although we note 
that consumer durable spending has been somewhat weaker and bears watching. The 
manufacturing sector is notably sluggish. We think this is consistent with a weakening of 
foreign growth. I’m cognizant that 45 percent of S&P 500 revenues come from outside the 
United States, and slowing rates of global growth help explain why S&P earnings per share are 
flattish to down from 2018 even with substantial amounts of accretive share repurchases. 
Regarding the labor market, average payroll gains the past three months have been 
150,000 per month, drifting closer to the range that we believe would be consistent with job 
growth near the rate of population growth, leading to roughly stable rates of unemployment. We 
have been expecting this moderation in job growth, and we don’t think we should be surprised 
that it is finally happening. We view 60,000 to 120,000 new jobs a month as consistent with a 
labor market that is “strong,” and we believe the labor market is at or past full employment, 
although we do share the views a number have mentioned about the paper from Richard Crump, 
Marc Giannoni and others that estimates the natural rate of unemployment to be approximately 4 
percent. Again, due to aging of workers, of firms, and increased women’s attachment to the 
labor force, we expect those trends will continue, and we think over the next few years the 
natural rate of unemployment is going to be in the neighborhood of 3¾ percent. It will continue 
to drift down, because these trends are continuing. 

Last comment: Most businesses I speak with note, having said all of this, that the cost of 
capital is historically low, and that access to capital is historically high. Credit spreads are 
extremely tight. They worry much more about trade and overall policy uncertainty and a lack of 
pricing power, worker shortages, and they worry much more about technology and technology-
enabled disruption than they do about monetary policy. Many note that the disruptors they face 
in their industries are enabled, to some degree, by the historically low cost of capital and capital 
markets that are willing to give high valuations to companies based on prospective volume gains, 
often with little prospect of near- or medium-term profitability. They also note that the low cost 
of capital is contributing to the high level of activism in shares of public companies who are 
actively pushing for more share repurchase and more leverage. In this regard, more than maybe 
in most of my previous rounds, many of them are noting they are hopeful that the Federal 
Reserve will be judicious and patient and allow this current trade situation to unfold before we 
take action. They worry more about other non-Fed-related issues and are somewhat fearful 
about stress created by the further lowering of the cost of capital. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Over the past two meetings at least, my narrative 
of the economy has not much changed. My expectation, which has been fully in line with the 
consensus of the Committee, has been that solid real GDP growth and healthy employment gains 
will continue. The seeming disconnect between this outlook and financial market developments, 
along with a new ramping-up of trade and tariff tensions, raises the obvious question of whether 
my outlook needs to be revised. In making our business contact and director rounds over this 
intermeeting period, we pushed hard on this question, paying special attention to whether 

sentiment was changing as trade policy and market developments became more worrisome late 
in the cycle. 
And I’ll note that the timing of our Branch and main office board meetings was 
particularly helpful in this regard, as we were able to take the temperature of most of our 
44 directors over the past two weeks. The response was pretty clear. Overall business sentiment 
in the Sixth District has remained positive, and most firms continue to expect solid demand 
growth in 2019. This relatively upbeat outlook prevailed throughout the cycle despite more 
prevalent concerns about trade policy that translated into additional downside risk among some 
contacts. 
Paraphrasing one of my directors who was channeling Pink Floyd, with respect to trade 
noise, businesses have, for now, become “comfortably numb.” I do not want to create the 
impression that all firms have shrugged off the recent tariff escalation or escaped without a 
scratch. Some entities in the direct crosshairs of policy shifts have noted delays and holds placed 
on potential projects. One of my directors is an international manufacturer of cellulose products. 
China accounts for roughly 40 percent of his sales, and he has seen a direct hit from retaliatory 
tariffs and restrictions. So far, his company is pumping the brakes to contain costs through 
measures such as travel bans, capital spending deferment, and limiting 2019 merit increases. 
But his experience does not appear to be representative of U.S. firms we’ve been in 
contact with. And nobody should take this message to suggest that the recent uncertainties are 
completely innocuous. A director told me that the current economic and policy environment has 
him, and I quote, “putting positive probability mass on previously inconceivable events.” 
But though I think firms are having to think hard about contingency plans in this 
environment, I do not think they have, en masse, executed a retreat. This relatively sanguine 

outlook was consistent with our latest Survey of Business Uncertainty. While the May survey 
closed prior to the announcement of tariffs on Mexico, the survey was live in the field to capture 
the escalation on Chinese imports. And despite that intensification, our business expectations 
index rebounded from weakness earlier this year to a level well above its average since 2015. 
And this is just a step-down from its high toward the end of last year. It is important to note that 
this index is constructed from firms’ subjective probabilistic beliefs about their own 
employment, capital spending, and sales growth expectations over the year ahead. One 
particular concern in the recent data is the softness of equipment and structures investment. A 
reasonable speculation is that firms are already pulling back the reins in the face of heightened 
uncertainty, and the most recent groundswell will only serve to exacerbate the slowdown. 
The information I’m gathering is at odds with that sentiment. Most employers are not yet 
willing to substantially alter capital spending plans as a result of trade uncertainty, and the results 
of our national survey showed that capital expenditure growth expectations have improved over 
the year. And this improvement holds for the manufacturing sector as well, which is most 
vulnerable to disruptive international trade conditions. But I do take the cap-ex picture onboard 
as a risk to my outlook. 
On inflation, interpretation of the recent data, in my mind, is more a matter of 
philosophy. The detailed May PPI and CPI data suggest that core PCE rose at an annualized rate 
just below 2 percent last month, and an exercise my staff ran to nowcast a trimmed mean PCE 
measure similar to the Dallas Fed’s approach yielded a 2.3 percent annualized increase for the 
month. So at this point I’m not inclined to abandon the position that the underlying inflation 
trend is consistent with gradual achievement of our 2 percent goal. The upshot is that I don’t see 
any reason to change my basic outlook either in response to incoming data or in response to 

signals coming from my contacts operating in the real side of the economy. I’ll return to this 
point tomorrow in my comments on policy. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Our 10th District contacts remain generally 
positive about the outlook for the economy even as they observe signs of slower momentum and 
growth. Recent surveys of our District manufacturers and service providers show that activity 
continues to expand. While the pace of growth picked up in the services component, growth in 
manufacturing softened, mostly driven by firms with direct international exposure. District 
exports are down 5 percent year-over-year. Employment growth in the District remains modest, 
with contacts continuing to report challenges of finding workers across numerous industries and 
occupations. Despite the tight labor market, most sectors had job gains the past few months, and 
real wages continue to trend higher. 
Growth in the District housing market has softened even as home prices continue to rise. 
Construction of new homes has weakened in most District states. In Colorado, for example, 
housing starts have declined by 35 percent relative to a year ago, in contrast to a 35 percent 
increase at the same time last year. 
District energy activity also has edged lower. The number of active oil and gas rigs 
continue to decrease, including a drop in active oil rigs in New Mexico, Oklahoma, and 
Wyoming in recent months. Reports have also come in that fracking crews are now being laid 
off after being idled a few months ago, and plans for capital expenditures are being cut back. 
Finally, challenges in the ag sector persist due to both supply and demand factors. Even with 
planting delays due to a wet spring and significant flooding, initial projections suggest 
production and inventories of major agricultural commodities will be high again this year. And 

exports have declined at a faster pace than a year ago because of a sharp reduction in shipments 
to China. 
Turning to the national outlook, incoming information since our last meeting suggests the 
U.S. economy has lost momentum. While I’ve been expecting growth to slow this year, there are 
indications that growth may be slowing sooner and by more than I had anticipated. Taking into 
account a further weakening in global growth, I have revised my SEP submission at this meeting 
to show real GDP growth moving down more quickly to its trend rate. My outlook calls for 
consumer spending to anchor output growth amid steady job gains in the service sector. Along 
these lines, I see the U.S. economy having similar contours to the 2015 global growth slowdown. 
During that episode, as manufacturing activity declined and investment spending stalled, 
consumption growth proved to be resilient. With a bit of déjà vu, I’m expecting a similar 
dynamic ahead, as I anticipate weakness in manufacturing and business investment, while 
consumer spending is supported by a solid labor market. 
This forecast for consumption is largely supported by the high levels of consumer 
sentiment reported in the University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers. My staff decomposed 
this index, which is near a 15-year high, into its three components: personal finances, business 
conditions, and household durables buying conditions. The recent strength in sentiment is driven 
by the personal finances component and the business conditions component, each of which is 
near its cyclical high. These readings indicate that consumers remain very optimistic about their 
own financial prospects as well as the broader labor market. 
The downturn, however, in the durables buying conditions component of this consumer 
sentiment index since March of last year highlights a risk to my outlook posed by ongoing trade 
developments. Last year, around the time that tariffs on washing machines went into effect, 

durables buying conditions turned lower and have continued to decline as import tariffs have 
broadened and increased. The recent increase in the tariff rate on Chinese imports and the 
lingering threat of tariffs on more consumer-oriented goods risk a broader pullback in consumer 
spending. Although durable household equipment only accounts for 2 percent of the PCE 
basket, the risk that trade tensions lead to declines in other aspects of sentiment bears watching, 
as all three of these components tend to move together through the business cycle. 
Trade tensions also are likely to weigh on inflation. While higher tariffs could lead to a 
short-lived increase in inflation, I see the more persistent effect of escalating trade tensions as 
disinflationary. Increases in tariffs have contributed to upward pressure on the foreign exchange 
value of the dollar as they slow global growth and amplify the degree of U.S. economic 
divergence. My revised outlook for inflation is informed by growing evidence that global factors 
are shaping both inflation and inflation expectations. My staff analyzed how consumers 
surveyed by the University of Michigan adjust their inflation expectations in response to various 
factors. This research finds that consumers don’t revise their longer-term inflation expectations 
in response to a lower-than-expected core CPI inflation release. 
On the other hand, an unexpected decline in energy inflation leads to a persistent and 
meaningful downward revision to consumers’ longer-term inflation expectations. These findings 
imply that the decline in consumers’ inflation expectations over the past five years may be partly 
driven by the downward trend in energy prices since 2014. As energy prices are dictated by 
world markets, this analysis reminds me to be cognizant of the global influences on inflation, and 
it also reminds me of how little we understand about the way the public incorporates these 
elements into their inflation expectations. 

Finally, I continue to see risks as tilted to the downside. These primarily relate to global 
factors, although sectors that are not directly exposed to the global economy have also shown 
some signs of weakness. Residential construction activity, for example, is slowing both in my 
District and nationally, as permits and starts are edging lower. I will be monitoring trade 
developments and incoming data to determine whether these risks will take a further toll on 
growth in a way that warrants recalibration of monetary policy. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The economy has remained on solid 
footing so far this year, but since our last meeting, concerns about global economic conditions 
and international trade have continued to increase, and the risks they present for economic 
activity here in the United States warrant our careful consideration. In addition to ongoing 
uncertainty surrounding trade negotiations, the continued slowdown in growth in China, 
increased uncertainty regarding the United Kingdom and Brexit, and renewed worries about 
issues in the euro area are all factors weighing on the economic outlook. Domestically, there is 
also still uncertainty regarding U.S. fiscal policy. 
Although the effects of these factors on U.S. economic performance thus far appear to be 
limited, the longer they persist, the greater the potential for economic headwinds. One of the 
primary channels for these effects is the business sector. Evidence that the uncertain outlook is 
beginning to have an effect can be seen in the latest readings on business sentiment, which have 
deteriorated in recent months. That said, the current levels are still within the range of values 
that are generally consistent with positive growth in business activity. 
Data on orders and shipments of capital goods have also softened in recent months, as has 
information on expected earnings for domestic producers of capital goods. Therefore, while I 

expect that business fixed investment will continue to expand this year, my outlook for the sector 
is more guarded than before. I see a risk that, if the period of heightened uncertainty is 
prolonged, business will become more cautious and pull back on their long-term plans for hiring 
and capital investment, generating further negative feedback effects. 
Another area where my worries have increased is the ag sector, where conditions have 
deteriorated noticeably in recent months. Major flooding across U.S. farming regions has led to 
substantial planting delays and reports of planted seed rotting in the ground. The result in either 
instance is a potentially significant reduction in crop yields. Of course, reduced yields could 
help boost prices for farm commodities from the lows of recent years, but higher prices will not 
be much help to farmers without crops to sell. Indeed, the effect on farm output may be large 
enough to leave an imprint on our national GDP figures for the third quarter. 
Moreover, the adverse weather conditions have put additional financial pressures on farm 
borrowers, many of whom are already facing stressful debt service burdens, given the increase in 
carried-over debt from preceding years. Carryover debt has continued to rise for many 
borrowers, and bankers have continued to restructure debt and to deny a modest amount of new 
loans, due to cash flow shortages. 
To be sure, an easing in trade tensions would relieve some of the pressure on farm 
incomes. But even so, conditions in the ag sector are likely to remain challenging for an 
extended period of time. Opportunities to export farm products have likely diminished, given the 
emergence of trade replacement routes and continued oversupply of commodities from previous 
years. While land values have remained high, they are elevated in relation to the land’s potential 
to earn income, specifically with respect to cash flow to farm the ground and its rental value as 
an investment. 

In contrast, conditions in the household sector still appear to be quite favorable. 
Consumer spending has regained momentum following a brief slowdown early in the year, and 
recent measures of consumer confidence have remained elevated. Ongoing gains in employment 
and wages, together with modest inflation, are supporting further gains in real income. 
Additionally, households’ financial obligations relative to income have remained well below 
their pre-recession levels. For all these reasons, I remain optimistic about the strength of 
consumption growth this year. 
Housing activity weakened last year, but with mortgage rates down more than 
1 percentage point over the past year, home-purchase loan originations have returned to the solid 
level seen in 2017. And, of course, the labor market remains very strong. The unemployment 
rate is extremely low, and job creation has continued at a healthy pace. Over the past year we 
have also been seeing that the strong job market seems to be pulling in people from the sidelines. 
And if that pattern continues, as I expect it will, the economy will benefit from a higher labor 
supply. 
On the other side of our dual mandate, PCE price inflation looks to have been tracking 
below our target rate of 2 percent. The Board staff and many market analysts view much of the 
recent softness as transitory, and they expect core inflation to move back up close to its target 
before year-end. And survey readings on long-run inflation expectations have remained 
somewhat stable. If those forecasts are correct, as I am assuming, and the underlying pace of 
price inflation has not faltered, we remain in a favorable position with regard to monetary policy. 
We are close to meeting our goals of maximum employment and price stability, and yet 
the lack of inflationary pressures leaves us room to consider whether some accommodation may 
be appropriate to help sustain the economic expansion. The incoming price data over the next 

few months will be important to consider, and it will also be worthwhile to see whether current 
uncertainties are resolved in the near term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. The most likely path of the economy remains broadly 
similar to the assessment in May: Consumer spending is robust, the job market is strong, and 
some measures of core inflation are soft. But crosscurrents from trade policy have made a 
dramatic return, putting at risk business investments, setting off volatility in equity markets and 
gloom in Treasury markets, and casting a pall on the global economy. So while the modal 
outlook remains solid, risks have shifted to the downside. 
With regard to the most likely path of the economy, real GDP growth should come in 
somewhat above its potential rate in the first half of this year, and incoming data provide some 
basis for expecting above-trend growth to continue for the remainder of the year. On the back of 
the strong retail sales report, it appears that consumer spending remains robust. With 
unemployment testing historic lows, wages growing moderately, and consumer sentiment 
elevated, there are good reasons to expect solid consumer spending gains to continue into the 
second half. Residential investment also looks likely to pick up. 
The labor market remains strong, although there are some indications that payroll 
employment is decelerating. The 3.6 percent unemployment rate in May was the same as in 
April and is down about ¼ percentage point from the first-quarter average. The employment to 
population (EPOP) ratio for prime-age Americans was about 79.7 percent in May—which is up 
about ½ percentage point from a year earlier and close to its pre-crisis cyclical peak. So far this 
year, payroll gains have averaged about 160,000 per month, and May’s payroll gain was 
especially weak. Against this, initial claims for unemployment insurance, which has proven to 

be a relatively good indicator of broader labor market reversals, remain very low. So far, I view 
the deceleration in payroll employment as in line with our earlier expectations that real GDP 
growth would slow but remain at an above-potential pace. But I will be watching both the 
payrolls and claims data very closely for any indications of a further loss of momentum. 
When we last met, there was some hope that disruptive shifts in trade policy were behind 
us. But May 5
 marked a reescalation of trade conflict, and the subsequent Mexico tweets 
significantly ratcheted up trade concerns. Though trade discussions with China had been in 
focus for some time, the announcement that tariffs could be imposed on Mexico to address issues 
in an unrelated realm of policy came as a surprise and appeared to be a game changer. For some 
businesses, it cast into doubt the supply chain adjustments they were already planning to protect 
against China uncertainty, while for others it raised the probability that auto tariffs could be 
imposed for national security or other reasons. 
These developments have prompted many to conclude that tariff volatility is not a bug 
but rather a feature of the current policy environment. The perpetual threat of additional tariffs 
represents one-sided adverse risks to the outlook. The prospects of new tariffs on consumer 
goods from China or on trade from Mexico or on autos do not come with commensurate upside 
risks. As one market participant told us, “Trade tensions are no longer risks to the outlook but 
are now actually impacting the outlook.” We can see the effects of that trade pessimism in the 
weakness in business investment indicators. And the downward revisions to expected earnings 
are an important factor in the Tealbook weighing on business investment projections and the 
assessment of spending plans. Depressed oil prices are also weighing on capital expenditures. 
Moreover, the reescalation of trade tensions has exacerbated the crosscurrents from the 
global economy. The latest indicators for China have been on the soft side for both industrial 

production and retail sales. Trade negotiations have deteriorated to the point where it now seems 
unlikely that we will see a full lifting of the restrictions that have been put in place; instead, the 
best that many are hoping for is no further escalation. Many China experts, nonetheless, believe 
the fiscal stimulus that has been put in place will gain traction in the months ahead, and the 
authorities have additional policy space that they are prepared to use to cushion the economy if 
needed. 
Thus, there are good reasons to expect China’s economy to stabilize, although we cannot 
rule out the prospect of further weakening with the attendant spillovers to important economies 
in that region. Similarly, while the authorities appear to have a more transparent and credible 
framework for managing their currency than was in place in 2015 and ’16, risks of greater-than-
expected currency weakening cannot be ruled out, along with potential financial spillovers more 
broadly. 
For Europe, the latest indicators also suggest weakness in the current quarter, especially 
in the manufacturing sector. And though Parliamentary elections are now in the rearview mirror, 
the transition in ECB leadership is coming at an exceedingly delicate time, when there is a need 
to fortify monetary policy in light of the apparent slippage in European growth and inflation. 
And Mexico is suffering from the slowdown in manufacturing in the United States, and inflation 
has been running above the central bank’s target, so interest rates remain elevated. Finally, the 
intermeeting period has also seen further geopolitical tensions with Iran, which are roiling oil 
markets. The repricing of risk that we have been seeing since the May 5 “pivot” has left overall 
financial conditions only marginally tighter than in April and still accommodative relative to 
historical norms. Nonetheless, within the broad indexes, there has been considerable price 
movement across asset classes. Risk appetite has diminished. That is most evident from the 

volatility we have seen in equities. By contrast, spreads of corporate bond yields over Treasuries 
haven’t widened by commensurate amounts, nor have they demonstrated the same kind of 
volatility as a result of what market participants report to be ongoing strong demand. And the 
dollar has appreciated about ¾ percent since our last meeting. 
Against this, the 10-year Treasury yield has come down about 40 basis points and is now 
below the federal funds rate. Alongside the drop in long-term interest rates, short-term interest 
rates have been little changed. This is a pattern that has historically been associated with 
increased recession risk, and I am taking some signal from these developments. More broadly, 
by a variety of indicators, it appears that recession probabilities moved up sharply in the recent 
quarter. 
In my discussions with market participants, the downside risks associated with trade 
policy is the single most cited reason for the pullback in risk sentiment in equity markets, with 
trade and geopolitical tensions seen as more likely to raise recession risk than either financial 
imbalances or the stance of monetary policy—which is consistent with Lorie’s presentation 
earlier. 
In the months ahead, fiscal policy may well add to the highly uncertain policy 
environment. Not only will the debt ceiling need to be addressed, but it will be important to 
reach agreement on spending levels beyond the expiration of the Bipartisan Budget Act. I see 
little evidence of the groundwork being laid so far, and we can’t rule out a repeat of the 
shutdown or other disruptions along the way. 
Finally, weaker-than-expected inflation warrants ongoing vigilance. In the most recent 
release of PCE prices of April, core PCE prices posted a 12-month increase of 1.6 percent, well 
short of our objective. There was reason to think that idiosyncratic factors may have been 

responsible for some of those low readings. Subsequent to that, however, we have seen the May 
CPI and PPI, and housing services and other market services data were somewhat disappointing 
relative to expectations. The staff is currently expecting that when the May PCE prices are 
released, the trailing 12-month change in core inflation will be 1.5 percent. 
These developments are concerning, especially given the fact that recent indicators of 
inflation expectations have been discouraging. Five-year, five-year-forwards have moved down 
30 basis points since our last meeting. The Michigan measure of long-run consumer inflation 
expectations fell to a new record low in its preliminary June reading, and three-year expectations 
in the New York Fed’s Survey of Consumer Expectations also edged down to 2.6 percent in May 
from 3 percent as recently as January. 
Along the same lines as Jeremy Rudd’s presentation today, I’ve been troubled by the low 
level of underlying trend inflation for the past couple of years, as implied by estimates of 
underlying inflation obtained using a variety of statistical filters. These are all lower than they 
were before the financial crisis and are uniformly below 2 percent. Consistent with the 
simulations that Jeremy showed today, I have been curious about how much and how quickly 
underlying inflation might respond to a higher actual inflation path. One model that has proven 
to be useful in thinking about that is the inflation-trend model of Stock and Watson, which 
captures the idea that underlying inflation reflects experience with actual inflation, and that that 
responsiveness varies over time. 
On the basis of recent estimates of the sensitivity of underlying inflation to experienced 
inflation, John Roberts and I found that if the FOMC were to succeed in raising inflation to about 
2¼ percent, it would only take about two and a half or three years for underlying inflation to rise 
from the starting point of about 1¾ percent currently to 2 percent. Of course, in our new normal 

of a flat Phillips curve, it’s not clear how the FOMC could engineer that 2¼ percent inflation to 
begin with on a sustained basis. Nonetheless, that calculation should give us some reason for 
optimism that if we were to experience shocks that raised inflation somewhat above 2 percent, 
we could actually move underlying trend inflation up to our target over a relatively few number 
of years, which is the main reason that I have been hopeful that, if we were so to see some 
positive inflation shocks, that “opportunistic reflation” would be an effective response. 
To sum up: Inflation remains soft, but consumer spending remains strong on the back of 
a strong and robust labor market. Trade conflict has reignited crosscurrents that are buffeting the 
economy at a time when it would already have been tricky to achieve a gentle glide path toward 
trend growth. That makes our navigational challenge somewhat greater, and we’ll talk more 
about that tomorrow. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Consistent with my effort to be a beacon of 
stability in a shifting and uncertain world, similar to President Bostic, my economic outlook 
remains largely unchanged from the time of the March SEP, although I have not yet adopted the 
practice of Oliver Wendell Holmes in his later years of never reading the newspaper so as to 
filter out the ephemera. So I do acknowledge that the uncertainties associated with the outlook 
have increased—and primarily to the downside. But just as in March, I continue to expect that 
GDP growth will step down this year from the very solid pace of last year and the first quarter 
but to remain at a rate that’s above my estimate of potential. 
I continue to see a fair amount of momentum in the economy, as President Rosengren and 
President Bostic and others have indicated, supported by fiscal policy and by a healthy labor 
market. The recent noise around trade policy, including the surprising and somewhat alarming 

prospect of tariffs on Mexico and the even more alarming prospect of tariff policy being 
completely divorced from trade objectives certainly presents a downside risk, especially if 
businesses begin to hold off on investment until the policy environment settles down. In that 
context, it certainly seems to me that the allure of auto tariffs on Europe, with the flaming ring of 
November 2020 hanging in the sky, may well be irresistible with predictable, quite negative 
effects on both activity and confidence, as President Evans suggested in his initial questions. 
And I do share the concerns of those of you, like Governor Brainard, who think we’re in 
for some rough sailing on the debt ceiling. I may be convincing myself otherwise [laughter], but 
I continue—at least at this meeting—to view these risks as more prospective than realized, 
though the situation requires continued monitoring. In particular, like many of you, I’ll be 
watching what happens to investment. The staff now expects business fixed investment to 
decline for the remainder of this year, an outlook that—if it is, in fact, realized—would lead me 
to reassess not only my near-term growth outlook, but also my relative optimism about potential 
growth and the level of the neutral interest rate. 
I have been fairly optimistic, as I have repeatedly said in these meetings, that the 
continuing rollout of new productive technologies supported by the incentives of the 2017 tax 
bill would boost capital spending and increase the economy’s productive capacity. I took last 
year’s strong investment as validating that outlook, but with equipment spending declining in the 
first quarter and the staff’s forecast for further declines, I’m open, but not quite ready yet, to 
perhaps temper my optimism. While trade concerns could be contributing to the weakness of 
investment, it does seem that the consumer has, up until now, been able to largely shrug off both 
the increased uncertainty around trade as well as the actual increase in prices on tariffed goods. 

Last week’s retail sales numbers implied solid consumption at the start of the quarter. 
It’s perhaps not surprising that consumers are likely to be more focused on the continued 
strength of the labor market than the current state of trade negotiations. And the labor market 
does remain strong, notwithstanding a somewhat soft number for May, but the three-month 
average of job gains remains in the range necessary to keep the unemployment rate flat, and flat 
at its lowest rate in half a century. And though I believe that there is continued scope for even 
more increases in labor force participation, I also wouldn’t be surprised, as a number of you have 
mentioned, if the pace of job gains lets up a bit as we reach very low levels of unemployment. 
Eventually, job creation is likely to decelerate, and we should not be terribly surprised or, if the 
deceleration is moderate, terribly concerned when it does. 
Regarding inflation, recent readings continue to surprise to the downside. It’s certainly 
appropriate to continue characterizing inflation pressures as muted. That said, it seems likely to 
me that the recent weak readings, at least in part, reflect transitory factors that can be expected to 
fade. In particular, the importance of outliers in driving the recent weakness of inflation is 
confirmed by the Dallas trimmed mean, which has been moving up in recent months and resting 
comfortably at 2 percent in April. 
Finally, in an effort to try to comply with what seems to be the modern social-media-
saturated world’s principle that one can never overshare, I am SEP participant number nine. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Vice Chair Quarles, I’m going to assume 
that that comment was not directed at me. [Laughter] 

Starting with the local economy, characterization of growth in the Ninth District has been 
downgraded from “modest” to “slight.” Most sectors continue to do well, but business contacts, 
like your contacts, report more uncertainty and more nervousness about the outlook. 
Most of my comments are going to be focused on the national economy. To start with, 
inflation is running below target—not surprising, I think, for this stage in the economic growth 
cycle. Core PCE on a 12-month basis is only running at 1.6 percent. We can continue to point 
to possible transitory factors, but a range of signals suggests that low inflation is likely to be 
persistent, not to mention the fact that we have been pointing to transitory factors for a number of 
years. One of my economists a year ago made a comment that if we ignore the low sectors of 
inflation, inflation looks much higher. [Laughter] That’s a little bit of a joke late in the day. 
Surveys of inflation expectations are hitting all-time lows, with Michigan and the New 
York Fed survey readings coming in at record lows. Market-based five-year, five-year inflation 
expectations are down around 30 basis points relative to 2018. Risk-neutral inflation 
probabilities show a much larger chance of inflation falling below 1 percent than rising above 3 
percent over the next five years, and there is worrying evidence of global disinflationary 
pressures. Oil prices are down about 20 percent from the spring, and inflation expectations have 
fallen sharply in the euro zone. I think we were premature in declaring victory on achieving our 
2 percent inflation target. 
For the real economy, consumption growth is strong and consumer confidence remains 
high, but weak investment is a concern. Orders, shipments, business surveys, and analyst 
surveys all point to waning business confidence. In addition, the labor market seems to have 
slowed somewhat: Only 75,000 jobs were added in May. On average, 2019 is running quite a 
bit below 2018 in terms of job growth. Are these payroll gains slowing simply because the pool 

of potential workers is close to empty? I don’t think so. If that was the case, I would expect to 
see wage gains picking up, and they’re not. Wage growth is essentially flat. If we’re going to 
change the definition of maximum employment to mean maximum employment absent wage 
gains, then I don’t know what the definition of maximum employment is anymore. So, for me, 
the key factor here is wage growth, and it’s not accelerating. 
The world economy appears to be slowing. There is the ongoing slowing of China, and 
the Tealbook forecast is only 1.3 percent growth for the advanced foreign economies in the 
second half and not much better in 2020 and 2021. The biggest signs of weakness in the global 
outlook are very low interest rates. Five-year government bonds are offering negative returns in 
Japan, but also in Germany, France, Spain, and even Portugal. Trade war escalation would 
obviously slow growth even further. As others have noted, recession forecasts based on the yield 
curve have gone from flashing yellow to flashing red. The staff’s term spread model shows a 
67 percent chance of recession in the next year. 
In sum, the U.S. economy is doing okay overall, but there are more than a few hints of 
weakness in the outlook. The global economy does appear to be weakening, posing a threat to 
the U.S. expansion. Inflation and the outlook for inflation are uncomfortably low—a theme that 
I’ll return to at tomorrow’s policy go-round. 
Let me just add one more thing. I’m SEP participant number 17. Setting aside my rate 
forecast, I have shifted down my u* estimate from 4 to 3.6 percent. And the reason I did this is 
because, previously, I had said that the labor force participation (LFP) was going to continue to 
expand. So if u went up to u* in my March submission, I was not expecting job growth to go 
down or jobs to go down, because the LFP would have continued to expand. But I heard from 
staff last time that they’re looking at the SEP as one of the justifications for their positive output 

gap. I don’t want my SEP submission to be contributing to your positive output gap. [Laughter] 
I don’t think there’s an actual positive output gap, so I’m going to keep lowering my u* with u 
until I see nominal wage growth net of productivity above 2 percent. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Information received since our last 
FOMC meeting indicates that, overall, the economy is growing at a moderate pace but points to a 
loss of momentum in job gains and business spending. At the same time, signals are increasingly 
flashing yellow that underlying inflation and inflation expectations are at risk of getting stuck in 
a rut below our 2 percent goal. While consumers enjoy their spending spree, the latest indicators 
suggest that we could see an outright contraction in business fixed investment this quarter, and 
that’s a rare event during an economic expansion. 
In addition, the outlook for global real growth has dimmed. The recent escalation of 
trade tensions poses risks of a more significant slowdown in sentiment and activity both here and 
abroad. These darkening clouds are affecting the mood in the Second District, where the 
headline index for the May Empire State Manufacturing Survey exhibited the steepest monthly 
drop in the survey’s 18-year history. We also saw a big drop in the Business Leaders Survey for 
the service sector. The replies to our business survey questions collected after the escalation of 
trade tensions suggest pronounced concerns about a deteriorating outlook, and responses to 
special questions on the effects of trade policy and tariffs revealed that a large share of firms 
have already been negatively affected and anticipate further negative effects in the near future. 
In large part, these more downbeat assessments appear to stem from heightened 
uncertainty, which reduces businesses’ willingness to hire and invest. This anxiety is echoed in 
comments from financial market contacts who view the recent extension of tariffs issued not 

directly related to trade as a game changer in how they view the likely duration and magnitude of 
trade tensions over the period ahead. 
But we shouldn’t ignore the direct effects of the tariffs either. For instance, the enacted 
increases in tariffs on imports from China will likely lead to substantial welfare costs, including 
the tax burdens faced by consumers as well as deadweight or efficiency losses. Research by my 
staff finds that U.S. domestic prices at the border have risen one-for-one with the tariffs levied 
last year. And, all told, my staff estimates a drag of nearly 0.4 percentage point on the level of 
real GDP a year from now to come from the existing tariffs, assuming that they stay in place. 
The fiscal outlook poses additional downside risks to the outlook to the economy. The 
Tealbook assumes that the current level of discretionary spending will be maintained in fiscal 
years 2020 and 2021. But in the absence of legislation—that is, under current law—
discretionary budget authority is scheduled to decline $150 billion for fiscal 2020, which starts in 
October 1 of this year. The resulting contraction of fiscal spending would exert significant drag 
on growth next year, resulting in a level of real GDP about ½ percent lower than baseline by the 
end of next year. 
On the inflation front, recent signs have not been reassuring. Wage growth appears to be 
stalled at a level that’s below that consistent with 2 percent inflation. Core CPI inflation in May 
was below expectations for the fourth consecutive month, and the 12-month core PCE inflation 
looks to come in at 1.5 percent in May. Now, we don’t want to get too caught up in the month-
to-month movements in inflation, but the direction of travel in core inflation from 2 percent in 
December to 1½ percent today is far from encouraging, especially given that this is happening at 
the same time that we’ve had these tariffs that should be otherwise providing a positive fillip to 
inflation. Measures of inflation expectations appear to be in danger of drifting away from us as 

well. The median three-year-ahead measure of inflation expectations from the May Survey of 
Consumer Expectations is the lowest since 2017, as a number of you have mentioned, and 
longer-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey are at all-time lows. 
In addition, longer-horizon inflation compensation measures have declined significantly 
over the intermeeting period, with the U.S. five-year, five-year-forward inflation swaps down 
about 27 basis points, reaching the lowest level since 2016. And this development is not unique 
to the United States. It reflects an ongoing disinflationary wave across advanced economies. 
For example, the five-year, five-year-forward euro inflation swaps have declined to around 
1.2 percent. Global disinflationary forces will continue to put downward pressure on prices 
at home. 
All told, ebbing growth momentum in the United States and abroad, heightened risks of a 
more significant slowdown, and ongoing weakness in inflation indicators all argue for a more 
accommodative policy path, as I will discuss in more detail tomorrow. Conditioned on a policy 
rate path that includes two rate cuts this year, my forecasts for GDP growth this year and next are 
little changed since the previous meeting at 2 percent, slightly above the potential rate. 
And this is actually an important point—a number of people have said this, but you can’t 
look at people’s forecasts and then say, “Your forecast hasn’t changed. Why have you cut the 
funds rate?” Well, the reason the forecast hasn’t changed is because, in my view, I’ve cut the 
funds rate. So we just need to be careful in how we think about that. You know, without a 
change in the path of the funds rate, my forecast would be lower for real GDP growth and higher 
for unemployment. I expect the unemployment rate to bottom out at about 3½ percent, 
½ percentage point below my natural rate of unemployment estimate of 4 percent and remain 
near there over the forecast horizon. 

A strong economy will not be sufficient to steepen the inflationary trajectory over the 
next few quarters, but I hope that it will increase the probability that we see a sustained 
achievement of our symmetric 2 percent inflation goal. In particular, I see core inflation coming 
in at 1.7 percent this year and only reaching our 2 percent longer-run goal in 2021. Even with 
these rate cuts, I see the preponderance of risks to the outlook to be on the downside, in terms of 
both growth and inflation. I am SEP participant number one. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks very much, and thanks for a very thoughtful, not to say— 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. We have a lot of time. Could I actually go over the 
Orphanides and Williams model? [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Maybe after. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks for a thoughtful and also thought-provoking go-round. So at 
the time of the May meeting and with the very strong jobs report that arrived just two days later 
on that Friday, I felt that our base-case outlook was really coming to fruition, one of an economy 
gaining steam in the second quarter. In fact, I felt better, briefly, about the outlook than at any 
time since last September. In a context of much more supportive financial conditions and high 
confidence readings from households and businesses, domestic demand was strengthening, the 
labor market was tightening even further, and there were tentative signs that the crosscurrents we 
had been monitoring were moderating. Inflation had dropped in the first quarter, but there were 
reasons to think that temporary factors were at play. I saw the economy as in a good place, and I 
saw our patient policy stance as fully appropriate. 
That was then. News that the trade talks with China had taken a seriously negative turn 
broke that Sunday afternoon, May 5, and from that moment forward, the intermeeting period has 

been eventful. Incoming data show that domestic economic activity continues at a solid pace. 
The baseline outlook is largely intact, though some fault lines are appearing, as I will discuss. 
However, risks to that outlook from trade confrontations and persistent trade policy uncertainty 
and weaker global growth have increased significantly. In addition, intermeeting developments 
have, on balance, further raised my concerns about the persistence of low inflation. 
All of these risks are reflected in turbulent financial markets that are signaling heightened 
concerns about the outlook. The combination of fault lines in domestic economic activity, 
increases in downside risks, and inflations concerns says to me that the case for additional 
accommodation has strengthened. As Jeremy showed in his presentation, incoming data indicate 
that economic activity was solid in the first half of the year, headline real GDP has grown above 
its trend pace, consumer spending has picked up in the second quarter, and unemployment has 
remained low. However, there are those fault lines that I mentioned. Business fixed investment 
looks to have stalled in the second quarter, manufacturing output and residential construction 
activity have continued their slide, and employment growth for May was disappointing. 
Moreover, with big contributions from government spending and net exports, the 
composition of growth is also much less flattering than the headline number. Since last 
September, the staff’s forecast for 2019 private domestic final purchases (PDFP) growth has 
been revised down 90 basis points, mostly because of lower business fixed investment, and now 
stands at 2.1 percent. While it is difficult to pin down the causes of weak business fixed 
investment with certainty, it does seem likely to me to be linked to concerns about trade policy 
and global growth, echoing Steve’s presentation. Softer, more timely information may shed 
some light on the strength of this link. The conversations that we have with businesses around 
the country provide such information and are particularly valuable today. 

The most recent Beige Book reports fairly widespread indications that trade policy 
uncertainty is, indeed, weighing on business sentiment and planning. The contrast to recent 
editions is striking. Tariffs were mentioned 37 times in the June Beige Book, twice as often as in 
April and March. References to trade and uncertainty were also much more prevalent in June 
than in prior months, echoing the survey that Lorie talked about as well. In addition, most Fed 
indexes of economic activity have moved lower, as have several private-sector indexes. 
Strikingly, yesterday the headline index from the New York Fed’s Empire State Manufacturing 
Survey suffered its steepest drop in history and is now in negative territory. There was a similar 
drop in the index for new orders. 
Anecdotes collected in the process of constructing these various indexes point toward 
trade policy as a risk. Overall, these indicators tend to confirm the presence of elevated 
downside risks from trade. Of course, survey results may just reflect the latest drama, which 
could die down, or we may be seeing that trade policy uncertainty is now a persistent factor in 
our economy. If so, I believe it will weigh on business sentiment and investment and jobs and, 
ultimately, output. 
With regard to inflation, the backdrop for the story is that inflation has run, on average, a 
bit below 2 percent for the past quarter-century. Of course, the Committee only formally 
adopted a 2 percent objective in 2012 and only began to use the word “symmetric” in the 
Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy in 2016. Inflation ran close to 
2 percent for much of 2018, and we’ve been expecting it to move up from last quarter’s weak 
readings over the course of the year. Data received since the May meeting suggest that inflation 
will also move up but slower than we had anticipated. Readings since the May meeting on 
inflation itself were mixed and a bit weaker overall than expected. Inflation expectations in the 

preliminary Michigan survey moved down to what would be an all-time low for a final reading. 
As a number of us have mentioned, breakevens have fallen sharply. This combination of factors 
seems to me to underscore concerns about our ability to achieve our symmetric inflation goal on 
a sustained basis. Indeed, the median SEP core inflation forecast is down two-tenths for 2019 
and one-tenth for 2020. Despite tight labor markets and above-trend real GDP growth, we may 
be losing ground. 
Financial markets are flashing warning signs. Since we last met, the yield on the 10-year 
Treasury is down about 40 basis points, and risk-neutral probabilities for rate cuts are moderate 
for this meeting and quite high for July. I have already mentioned breakevens. The stock market 
is down about 2 percent and presumably would be much lower if it wasn’t pricing in quite a lot 
of monetary policy accommodation. Animal spirits can be volatile—and we should look past 
temporary shifts in financial markets. But markets are powerful aggregators of information and 
sentiment that we should not ignore. 
To sum up, despite some areas that bear close monitoring, the baseline outlook hasn’t 
changed that much, with growth near potential and unemployment near historic lows. But with 
the crosscurrents reemerging due to heightened uncertainty regarding trade negotiations and 
global growth, I believe that the case for additional accommodation has strengthened, and I 
believe that there is broad, if not universal, agreement around this table on that. And I invite you 
to take the opportunity tomorrow morning to disabuse me of that notion if I am wrong. 
[Laughter] 
Given the speed with which these risks seem to have gained strength, we need to be ready 
to move in the near term. For the same reason, for today it is appropriate to wait and see more 
data. We should not overreact to data and events that may reflect noise rather than signal, nor do 

we have the luxury of waiting for anything approaching certainty. So what I’d like to do to wrap 
up my part of this is, I’m going to say more specifically, but in summary form, what I’m hoping 
to convey at the press conference tomorrow afternoon. 
I will be saying that the baseline outlook is not much changed, supported by solid 
consumer spending, but there are areas that we are monitoring closely. And I’ll mention the 
more sustained inflation shortfall, weak business fixed investment, and job growth. I’ll also say 
that the downside risks to the outlook have clearly increased. In other words, after tentative 
signs in April that the crosscurrents were moderating, they have now reemerged, and I’m 
referring here to weaker readings on global real growth and trade policy developments. I’ll note 
that many participants see that a more accommodative rate policy is likely to be appropriate at 
coming meetings. I will also note that participants broadly see the case for more accommodation 
as having strengthened, including some of those who wrote down a flat rate path. The message 
that I hope to deliver is one of a calm assessment that somewhat more accommodative monetary 
policy is likely to be appropriate to achieve our baseline outlook. 
One obvious question will be, if you think that, then why not move now? My answer 
will draw from what I’ve just relayed to you in these comments: “Only one meeting ago, there 
were tentative signs that the crosscurrents were moderating. At that time, the Committee did not 
see a strong case for moving. The crosscurrents have returned, but only quite recently, and we 
don’t want to overreact to short-term swings in sentiment, anecdotes, and data. So the 
Committee would like to see if the crosscurrents fade yet again or will remain strong while 
remaining ready to act swiftly if needed.” And then I’ll say, “We will use our tools as 
appropriate to sustain the expansion with a strong job market and inflation running near our 
2 percent objective.” 

So, that was long. Thank you very much. And, with that, we will go to Thomas. I think 
we have time for that before dinner. So, Thomas, over to you for monetary policy. 
MR. LAUBACH.7 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will be referring to the handout 
labeled “Material for the Briefing on Monetary Policy Alternatives.” 
As Lorie pointed out in her briefing and as discussed by many of you, during this 
intermeeting period we have witnessed unusually large shifts in measures of the 
expected path of the federal funds rate. As shown by the green bars in the upper-left 
panel, the market-based probability distribution for the federal funds rate at the end of 
June now suggests a nontrivial—but still not large—probability of a reduction in the 
target range for the federal funds rate at this meeting. By contrast, as shown in the 
upper-right panel, about 75 percent of the probability mass for the federal funds rate 
following the July meeting now lies below the current target range, compared with 
only 20 percent at the time of the previous meeting. And for those of you sharing my 
recent addiction to Bloomberg’s webpage, as of this afternoon that number was about 
80 percent. It is important to keep in mind that these probability measures have not 
been adjusted for risk premiums, and insofar as the Committee is expected to reduce 
rates in bad states of the world, these market-based measures may exaggerate the true 
probability that market participants attach to cuts. Nonetheless, consistent with the 
Desk surveys, the shift in expectations has been rather dramatic. 
Understanding the drivers of the shift in policy rate expectations may be 
important for your policy action and communications at this meeting. To explore this 
issue, the middle-left panel shows the evolution over the intermeeting period of the 
market-based expected level of the federal funds rate at the end of this year, the red 
line, along with the S&P 500 futures price index, the blue line. To put the magnitude 
of the moves in historical perspective, both series have been set to zero at the time of 
the May meeting and have been scaled by their average daily standard deviations over 
the past decade. The purpose of the rescaling is to provide a common ruler on the 
vertical axis with which you can judge the relative magnitudes of the changes in the 
two series. For example, upon the announcement of the China trade tariffs early in 
the intermeeting period, both stock prices and the expected policy rate fell about 
2 daily standard deviations, a nontrivial move. Much larger moves in policy rate 
expectations, however, came following the Mexico tariff escalation, when the 
expected policy rate fell by roughly 11 daily standard deviations over a couple of 
days. The stock market reaction was tiny by comparison despite widespread 
commentary that the proposed new tariffs, if implemented, could represent a 
significant drag on economic activity. 
One explanation for the disparate reactions across the two markets is that 
investors expected that the Committee would ease policy in response to the 
headwinds generated by trade uncertainty, and that this easing would be sufficient to 
sustain the economic expansion, thus keeping the stock market afloat. Following the 
 
7 As noted on page 4, the materials used by Mr. Laubach are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). 

weaker-than-expected employment report, the two markets followed a similar pattern, 
with the expected policy rate falling notably alongside largely unchanged equity 
valuations. As shown by the red square in the middle-right panel, the actual response 
of the two-year Treasury yield following the release of the employment report was 
about twice as large as would have been predicted based on the size of the surprise 
implied by this release—hence the square’s location well below the regression line. 
What accounts for this unusual sensitivity of monetary policy expectations to 
negative economic surprises? As Lorie mentioned, the Desk survey respondents rank 
changes in the outlook for trade policy and uncertainty regarding this outlook as the 
most important drivers of the decline in the 10-year Treasury yield over the 
intermeeting period. This is consistent with the much more frequent references to 
trade-related concerns from your business contacts in the Beige Book, as the Chair 
mentioned, as well as reports from market participants that, because of trade 
uncertainties, nonfinancial firms are beginning to hold off on investment plans. 
With perceptions of downside risks to economic activity and inflation having 
increased significantly, key questions that you are confronting are how much hard 
evidence for a degradation in the outlook for employment and inflation you would 
need to see before changing your policy stance and how to communicate your 
willingness to respond to such evidence. As summarized in the bottom-left panel, 
there are good arguments on either side for acting early and preemptively as well as 
for awaiting more evidence. 
As a general matter, with the federal funds rate still not far away from the 
effective lower bound, economic research suggests that your ability to forestall an 
economic downturn is highest if you respond early and forcefully to emerging signs 
of economic weakness. The uncertainties surrounding trade policy developments 
may already have had negative implications for the economic outlook. And the return 
of PCE inflation—both headline and core—to 2 percent seems, yet again, to be more 
protracted. 
In these circumstances, a reasonable case can be made that the appropriate stance 
of monetary policy should be easier than it is now. This is the case motivating 
alternative A. On the other hand, there are risks associated with changing the policy 
stance if it is unclear to outside observers what information you are responding to. 
Changing the policy stance now could create confusion about your reaction function, 
and it could inadvertently serve to increase pessimism by raising the perennial 
question, “What does the FOMC know that we don’t?” In addition, you have, in the 
past, emphasized that you are responding to economic and financial developments 
that are sustained and thereby affect the prospects of achieving your goals. With 
many of the developments that have given rise to the deterioration in risk sentiment 
quite recent and their resolution still open, you may want to signal that their 
implications for the economic outlook are, as yet, unclear. 
As summarized in the bottom-right panel, with alternative B you would 
communicate that the evidence accumulated so far does not warrant a change in the 

policy stance at this meeting, and that waiting for a few more weeks to assess the 
effects of heightened uncertainty on the economy may be prudent. But emphasizing 
uncertainties about the outlook and dropping the “patient” language in favor of 
asserting your willingness to act as appropriate would likely leave the impression 
that, unless risks to the outlook materially diminish over the coming intermeeting 
period or the data surprises on the upside, you are ready to ease policy in July. This 
message would be supported by the notable downshift in the dots as well as the fact 
that, in your SEP submissions, most of you see the risks to the outlook for real 
activity and inflation as weighted to the downside. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. That completes my prepared remarks. The May statement 
and the draft alternatives and implementation notes are shown on pages 2 to 10 of the 
handout. And I will be happy to take questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Questions for Thomas? 
MS. DALY. I have one, at the risk of— 
CHAIR POWELL. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. —upsetting people’s dinner plans. I just want to know how, Thomas, you 
and the staff think about this pessimism response, that people will react because they will think 
we know something they don’t. In your mind, is that only if we surprise markets by cutting rates 
when they don’t expect it, or is it something more? How should I think about that? 
MR. LAUBACH. I think my speculation on this point was mostly motivated by thinking 
that if you moved, for example, at this meeting when the probability is still relatively low, that 
could lead to questions of, do you see, actually, the risks as more severe than market participants 
see them? And that could lead to a response of, maybe the situation is more dire than we had 
expected. But that’s very difficult to predict. 
CHAIR POWELL. If I can—I always find it useful to think of historical examples, like, 
people are talking about ’95 and ’98 and things like that. Are there any historical examples we 
can think back to in which what might have been seen as a “dovish” thing was seen as “hawkish” 
for this reason? Can we point to anything like that? 

MR. LAUBACH. I don’t know whether we can actually—I’m not quite sure how far 
back, for example, our event study results go, whether the mid-’90s would show something of 
this sort. I’m not aware of that. 
CHAIR POWELL. I think Governor Bloom Raskin, if you remember, used to make this 
point, just generally, about the statement being—yes. 
MR. CLOUSE. I recall several cases of event studies in which we had what, at the time, 
we were calling the “English effect,” because Bill was pointing out this is a possibility. But I 
can’t remember exactly. 
CHAIR POWELL. We’ll look at them. It’s interesting. Further questions? President 
Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. In the, I think, second iteration of the statement that came on 
Wednesday, the phrase “with a strong labor market and inflation near its” was added to the end. 
There were other changes made that I understood, but I was just curious what the thinking was 
about the addition of that phrase. 
MR. LAUBACH. That is a formulation that actually the Chair has used now for quite 
some time in the press conference statement. The frequent sentence in there ran something like 
“We have one overarching goal, which is to sustain the expansion, with a strong labor market 
and inflation near the Committee’s 2 percent objective.” And so I think the “sustain the 
expansion” thought was basically continued with those words. 
MR. BARKIN. You’re trying to define what “sustain the expansion” means? Is that 
the— 
MR. LAUBACH. Link it to the goals, right. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I mean, I— 

CHAIR POWELL. Go ahead. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I think one of the things is, people are looking for, what are 
the triggers, what are the things we’re looking for. And I—at least from my perspective, you 
know, it’s important to go back to the dual-mandate goals. A couple of months ago, everyone 
was asking, “What’s the inflation data you’ll need to see to cut rates?” And now they’re saying, 
“What’s the bad data in the economy you’ll need to see?” And I think it’s better to step back and 
give the bigger picture. We’re looking for a strong labor market, sustained expansion, and 
inflation, all of these things coming together, as opposed to one or the other. 
CHAIR POWELL. Let me just say—so this is also echoing what I said in Chicago pretty 
much verbatim. And we thought that was a good technology. But, more to the point, why say 
“sustain the expansion”? I’ve been saying that a lot. I’m trying to link to the thought that in a 
long, long expansion, you’re now pulling people back into the labor market, wages are going up 
for people at the bottom end, labor force participation had been holding in really well. You 
know, there is just so much value in a couple of more years of expansion, in terms of reaching 
low- and moderate-income communities. So that thought links up with that. Further questions? 
Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. It also just links up with what we say earlier in the paragraph, which 
is that we view this as the most likely outcome, it’s the three things together, and then we say, 
“But uncertainties have increased, and so what do we need to do to ensure”—so that thought has 
been there for a long time, I think. 
MR. BARKIN. And no interest in, you know, line editing. I was just curious whether 
there was something about defining “expansion” that you felt was necessary. It’s on— 
CHAIR POWELL. That was it. 

MR. BARKIN. Okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. I say that in every press conference statement now. And people 
started to pick it up as a priority, and they link it to those low- and moderate-income panels—that 
you are really benefiting these communities that are just now seeing the benefits of the 
expansion. In a couple of more years, they’d see a lot more. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just had a question about the 
“Equity Prices and Policy Expectations” chart here, which you’ve normalized by daily standard 
deviations. But I just had the thought that this gives the impression that the reaction on the 
policy rate has been outsized and the reaction on equity market pricing by some metric has been 
muted. But the policy rate was constrained by the lower bound for a decade, so I’m not quite 
sure you’re getting the right kind of comparison here. 
MR. LAUBACH. We did this calculation over a couple of different samples. If you start 
only around the time of liftoff, actually, the picture looks even more extreme. This sample here 
starts in 2008 and, therefore, includes the quite volatile crisis period in there. So you are right 
that the volatility is very suppressed, basically, from 2011 to 2015. But on the two bookends of 
that period, there is actually quite a bit of policy rate volatility. 
Let me just say—you might look at this and say, “Okay, 20 standard deviations, are you 
kidding?” This is a once-in-the-life-of-the-universe event. I would say, now, we know that these 
asset price moves are neither normally distributed nor independent over time. Over this period, I 
believe, even if you look, say, at the intermeeting period including the Brexit referendum, which 
on the day elicited the largest response—so that’s the largest single-day response of about 
20 basis points on a two-year yield—but over the intermeeting period as a whole, it was not 

nearly as big. In fact, much of it reversed. So this intermeeting period really stands out, in terms 
of the size of the decline in policy-sensitive rates. 
MR. BULLARD. Well, I mean, I would just casually—you know, living through the 
’90s, and you’d have a crisis come along, and markets would reprice down 50 basis points for 
the Fed, it’s not a crazy thing. This makes it seem like it’s crazy. 
MR. LAUBACH. I’m not saying it’s unprecedented, but it is historically quite low. 
CHAIR POWELL. Other questions? If not, we will reconvene in the elegant West Court 
Café for dinner, and I’ll see you tomorrow morning at 9:00 a.m. 
[Meeting recessed] 

June 19 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. Let’s get started again. President 
Rosengren, would you like to begin the policy go-round? 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B. The bimodal 
outcomes that I discussed yesterday make the crafting of our policy statement tricky. While the 
draft statement could be viewed as a readiness to act contingent on trade risks materializing, I 
fear that the statement will be heard as too close to a promise of easing at our next meeting. 
To be clear, if the next round of tariff increases are in place by the July meeting and the 
retaliation from China and market reactions here and abroad are significant, I’ll be very 
comfortable insulating a shock with monetary policy easing. However, we could instead see 
both sides coming to a resolution quickly, perhaps motivated by a concern about the potential 
cost to both sides of trade disruptions, with both sides declaring victory. Under that scenario, our 
lean toward easing will seem out of step, and, rather than suffering the consequences of a trade 
shock, the shock to the economy could be our walking back the presumption of easing. 
My preference would be to move toward less forward guidance in the statement over 
time, as President Barkin has previously suggested. We should respond to significant events that 
disrupt the economy, but in cases like this, in which they are not particularly predictable, I’d be 
inclined to wait until the event occurs rather than set a policy lean with a particular unpredictable 
outcome in mind. I am concerned that our statement will validate markets that are already too 
sure about our future actions. The sooner we can communicate that the future is not that certain, 
the better. 

A final thought. The S&P 500 index is quite close to a record high, the unemployment 
rate is at a 50-year low, yet we have a strong lean to additional accommodation. Such a pattern 
gives me pause. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. I support alternative B as written. I think it 
does make sense to acknowledge that market-based measures of inflation compensation have 
declined, because, since our May meeting, the decline has been material and has reversed the 
welcome increase in breakevens that we observed year to date through our previous meeting. 
We continue in the statement to state that survey-based measures of inflation expectations 
are little changed. This is technically correct, but, of course, it obscures the fact that survey 
measures—such as the Michigan survey, for example—are at very low levels. Indeed, the most 
recent “print,” if it is sustained, will be the lowest “print” ever in the history of that survey. 
In regard to the way forward for monetary policy, I would like to make three points. 
First, the median SEP forecast of long-run u* has yet again been revised down and now stands at 
4.2 percent, and five participants, including myself, project a long-run u* of 4 percent or lower. I 
mentioned the paper by Crump, Eusepi, Giannoni, and Sahin yesterday. One of the important 
contributions of that paper is that it distinguishes between the long-run trend in the 
unemployment rate and the rate consistent with stable inflation. They estimate the latter to be 
4 percent or less right now, which is below their estimate of the trend. If, indeed, u* is 4 percent 
or less—and this is certainly consistent with the data as I read them on wages, as well as their 
model—then the output gap is much smaller than the staff estimates, which means that any 
upward pressure from the output gap on future inflation will be less than the staff estimates, 
which means it is less likely that inflation will return to target under unchanged policy—which, 

even under staff projections, does not occur over our forecast horizon. This is a downside risk to 
our ability to reach price stability under the current stance of policy. 
Second, an important judgment the Committee will need to make in the months and years 
ahead is how much weight we place on inflation expectations in our conception of price stability. 
In textbook models that ignore the lower bound, this issue does not arise, because optimal policy 
delivers inflation outcomes that are symmetrically distributed around the target, and rational—
model consistent—expectations will equal the target. Thus properly understood, period-by-
period optimal policy should deliver expected inflation equal to target. Actual inflation will, of 
course, differ from target due to random shocks. Our existing consensus statement does not fully 
convey that price stability requires expected inflation to equal target—rather, it just asserts that, 
simply by announcing a target, we anchor inflation expectations. I wish it were so, but it is not. 
I would argue that, as we go forward, we should calibrate policy to achieve and sustain 
inflation expectations at our target, fully recognizing that inflation expectations, like u*, are 
unobserved and possibly time varying. As we do with labor market indicators, we should 
consult a wide range and variety of measures of expected inflation and form our judgment. 
Finally, I agree with the decision today to take no policy action but to signal with our 
language that uncertainties about the outlook have increased, that we will act as appropriate, and 
that the case for a more accommodative policy stance has increased since our May meeting. I 
discussed these downside risks in my outlook go-round yesterday. I won’t repeat them. Of 
course, none of us have a crystal ball. So I, like the rest of you, would like an opportunity to 
study the incoming data on employment, inflation, real GDP, and trade policy before our next 
meeting. But, that said—and given my concerns about underlying inflation—I am comfortable 
in conveying this tilt in our communication with the statement. Thank you, Chair Powell. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. At this meeting, I support alternative B as written. 
As I noted yesterday, recent data are worrisome and indicate that conditions for both economic 
growth and price inflation have tilted to the downside. The loss of momentum in the real 
economy is apparent in forecast revisions that show weaker real GDP growth in the second half 
of this year. 
There has also been a jump in recession probabilities and the probability of hitting the 
lower bound. The increase in these probabilities reflects several factors, as Lorie mentioned 
yesterday in her presentation, including elevated trade policy uncertainty, renewed global 
weakness, and more pessimistic investor and business sentiment. 
At the same time, we are falling even further below our 2 percent inflation target, with 
headline and core PCE inflation of only 1.5 percent over the past 12 months. As I noted 
yesterday, some of the low inflation readings could be attributable to transitory factors. 
However, after several years of undershooting our inflation target, it seems likely that more 
fundamental or persistent factors are also at play, even if we can’t measure them yet. And with 
slower real GDP growth, stable wage gains, and falling commodity prices, inflation pressures 
currently are tugging in the wrong direction, dragging inflation down rather than pushing it up. 
Whatever the cause, persistently weak inflation readings run the risk of softening 
inflation expectations, which we’re already starting to see in the data. Our ability to maintain the 
nominal inflation anchor both now and, importantly, when we inevitably enter our next downturn 
requires that we achieve and maintain inflation at our 2 percent goal. In response, we need to 
make sure that we are doing all we can to achieve our target sustainably. Even, I would add, if 
we’re not sure how robust our instruments are, we still have to try to push inflation up to 

2 percent. Therefore, my appropriate policy projection for this year is more accommodative, 
with two 25-basis-point cuts later in the year. 
Finally, I appreciate the concerns that policy easing may exacerbate already high asset 
valuations and aggravate corporate indebtedness, and that recent headwinds could die down 
again or even vanish in the most optimistic scenarios. So it is appropriate to wait and gather 
some more data to see if the weakness in growth and inflation continues. However, absent 
surprisingly good data and a marked turnaround in inflation, adjustment to our policy stance will 
be warranted. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My assessment is that this Committee is 
out of position at this juncture and that we’re taking some risk at this meeting in being 
interpreted as too “hawkish,” given recent developments in the global economy. I do not think 
that this is a good moment to be more “hawkish” than the market, as our preferred measure of 
inflation is below target and, more importantly, measures of inflation expectations are low and 
have been declining precipitously. 
I would associate myself with the comments of Governor Clarida on this. In models, we 
would have rational expectations, and so credibility wouldn’t be a problem. But, in the real 
world, it is an issue, and I would see these measures as reflecting on the credibility of the 
Committee. So I think that the credibility of our inflation target is waning and that we should 
take action beginning today to shore up that credibility. We say that our inflation target is 
2 percent, but we need to back that pronouncement with action to ensure that actual inflation 
outcomes by our preferred measure match the pronouncement. 

I propose that we cut the policy rate today by 25 basis points along the lines suggested in 
alternative A. The primary purpose is to try to re-center inflation and inflation expectations at 
the 2 percent target. If successful, this move would help push inflation back to 2 percent more 
quickly than would otherwise be the case. 
Separately, trade regime uncertainty is now elevated, and, in my estimation, it will 
remain significantly elevated over the forecast horizon. I see this persistent, elevated trade 
uncertainty as a drag on global real GDP growth, especially global manufacturing and 
agribusiness, which is likely to feed back to U.S. growth prospects. 
I think we need to be forward looking, not backward looking, in this situation. Many at 
this table and in financial markets have marked down second-half 2019 U.S. real GDP growth 
meaningfully, sometimes even after taking into account sharp action by this Committee. The 
10-year/3-month measure of the yield curve slope has become meaningfully inverted. I see no 
reason to fight this market signal in the current situation. A cut today would help provide some 
insurance that the slowdown in the economy does not become considerably sharper than we 
currently expect. Ideally, we can move today to sidestep any recession risk that may be out 
there. A signal of success would be to return the yield curve to a more normal shape. 
Finally, should the second half of 2019 turn out to be stronger than expected, there is a 
silver lining for the Committee. In that circumstance, all that would happen is that inflation by 
our preferred measure would return to target more quickly, and inflation expectations would 
become better centered on our inflation target. 
In sum, I support a reduction in the policy rate today as outlined in alternative A. I see 
the policy rate reduction as helping re-center inflation and inflation expectations at target and, 
simultaneously, as insurance against a sharper-than-expected slowdown in real economic 

activity. I do think that the 1995 example, which has been discussed extensively here in the past, 
provides a good road map for how this can be done successfully. I understand that there are 
many differences between 1995 and today. But I see the principles as the same. 
On language and tactics, in alternative A, I would also propose to remove the third 
sentence in paragraph 2, which is “The Committee also decided to conclude the reduction of its 
aggregate securities holdings in the System Open Market Account at the end of July,” et cetera. 
I’m concerned about this, and I think we may face this again at the next meeting. In my mind, 
we’ve already made the decision about balance sheet policy. I would not open this box again 
and reintroduce balance sheet policy as something that’s simultaneously going on with interest 
rate policy. I think the sentiment, as I understood it around the table, was that we did not want to 
do that. So I think our language should be that we’ve already made a decision on the balance 
sheet—we’re going to end the runoff in September, and that’s going to be that. I think the policy 
rate sends plenty of signal here. I don’t think we need to do anything on the balance sheet side. 
So I would just strike that entire sentence. 
I wanted to just make a few comments about moving today versus moving later. I think, 
as Chair Powell discussed yesterday, going with alt-B today successfully would mean that we 
put essentially 100 percent weight on a move in July. I think the key question is going to be, 
well, if it’s 100 percent on July, why didn’t we move today? And what data would have to come 
in during the intermeeting period that would make you take the July move off the table? If, on 
the other hand, we come off as saying, “Well, we’re not sure if we’re really going to move in 
July,” then that’ll be perceived as pretty “hawkish” relative to market expectations. And I’m not 
sure we really want to be that “hawkish” in this situation, since inflation and inflation 
expectations are below target. 

Another possibility is that the intermeeting news is not good and we get pressed into a 
50 basis point move in July, which I think is also a bad situation for the Committee. That’s 
going to make it seem like we’ve “fallen behind the curve” or are trying to catch up, and my 
experience in the past is that that’s not a good situation for the Committee to be in. That might 
also signal quite a bit more easing action through the fall and into next year than we’re really 
intending at this point. 
So this is why I’m recommending that it’s better to move today and not say too much 
about what we may or may not do in the future, and that we’re awaiting developments and will 
make a judgment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative A at this meeting, 
but I’m actually not that excited about it. I think my comments are going to echo President 
Daly’s and President Bullard’s, though I think my prescription is going to be somewhat different. 
My main concern is that inflation remains stubbornly below target 10 years into the 
expansion. As others have said, I think it’s tempting to point to transitory factors. But my view 
is that inflation is too low primarily because inflation expectations are too low and that there’s 
still slack in the labor market. Low inflation expectations signal that firms and markets are not 
convinced that our 2 percent inflation objective is a symmetric target as opposed to a ceiling. I 
would say, the staff having underlying inflation at 1.8 percent—in Minneapolis, we think it’s 
around 1.7 percent—that’s consistent with a ceiling rather than a symmetric target. 
The danger is that if inflation expectations become unanchored to the downside, it’s very 
difficult to reset them up. Japan has had no success. Europe appears to be following in Japan’s 
footsteps. 

To me, long-run inflation expectations are a reflection of the reaction function that we 
have taught markets over a number of years. Again, I think markets have interpreted us as 
having a ceiling. That points to long-run inflation expectations of 1.7 or 1.8 percent. So I 
challenged my staff to say, how could we teach markets a new reaction function to re-anchor 
inflation expectations at 2 percent? And here’s where I differ somewhat with what President 
Bullard said in terms of the prescription. I don’t think that a 25 basis point cut in isolation, a 50 
basis point cut, or two 25 basis point cuts by themselves will actually re-anchor inflation 
expectations, because it’s taken years for us to teach the markets the current underlying rate of 
inflation of 1.7 and 1.8 percent. So my proposal is a 50 basis point cut combined with language 
that commits us not to raise rates until we actually achieve our 2 percent target—core inflation of 
2 percent on a sustained basis. That, to me, is teaching the markets a new reaction function, and 
I think it’s something that we could credibly commit to. 
For this, by the way, there’s some precedent, the Evans rule, which anchored policy on an 
employment outcome. In my proposed approach, we would be anchoring policy on our inflation 
outcome. And I don’t think it would preclude us from cutting rates further in the future if the 
economic conditions deteriorated further. 
So, what are the risks associated with this? First, I think if the plan is too successful and 
inflation and inflation expectations rise quickly, that’s great. We have an outlet, which is, if 
inflation returns back to target, then we’re free to go ahead and raise rates at that time. I view 
that as a high-class problem. 
I think there’s a much bigger risk associated with remaining patient until we’re sure that 
the economy is really slowing. You know, inflation expectations may decline further, making 
them harder to then re-anchor, and we may have misjudged neutral. I’ve been saying that I think 

we’re roughly at neutral, but we might be in a contractionary stance right now, in which case 
policy is depressing real activity, job creation, and inflation. As I said many times, I still think 
there’s slack in the labor market. And, as President Bullard pointed out, the yield curve is 
inverted, and I think we should take that signal seriously. 
Now, finally, how would this proposal fit into the Fed Listens initiative that we have 
undertaken? I actually think that this compliments it very well, because we’ve said we’re not 
going to change our inflation target. So if we conclude that we want to move to some alternative 
framework, the best thing we can do is achieve our goals under our existing framework. That’s 
the right place from which to move to any potential new framework. So I don’t think my 
proposal of a 50 basis point cut, combined with forward guidance—holding rates where they are 
until we achieve our target—I think that supports our longer-run policy review rather than 
working at cross-purposes. That’s it. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. President Rosengren’s views are aligned with 
mine, and I’m sure he was much more elegant than I’m going to be in a moment expressing 
mine. 
I support no change in the funds rate today, as in alternative B. My outlook for the 
economy is similar to that characterized in the third sentence of paragraph 2—namely, little 
change in the modal outlook but increased downside risks. Although the softer data cloud the 
outlook, I continue to think the most likely outcome will be output growth and employment 
growth slowing to trend over the forecast horizon and, after the weak near-term readings, 
inflation gradually rising to 2 percent. This is conditional on appropriate monetary policy. 

Now, the inflation and inflation expectations readings have been soft. But in the scenario 
of continued expansion and strong labor markets, given the relatively low level of the funds rate, 
I think it would be best to take an opportunistic approach to low inflation readings rather than 
proactively try to move inflation up with rate cuts. This would mean a shallow policy rate path, 
maintaining the funds rate at current levels for a while to allow inflation to move up without 
overstimulating the economy, and not overreacting to shocks that move inflation somewhat 
above 2 percent for a time. And we should be transparent that this is the strategy that we’re 
following. I view this strategy as consistent with our balanced approach to achieving our policy 
goals. 
This is my modal view. However, the downside risks to the forecast have increased since 
our previous meeting, and there’s some possibility we’ll experience a sharper slowdown in 
growth. Global real growth has slowed, and business investment is weak. The global decline in 
sovereign debt yields suggests bond investors see higher risks of slower growth, and the low 
inflation readings could also be a signal that we’re entering this scenario. In the slow-growth 
scenario, the Committee would need to act to bring the funds rate down with the equilibrium 
interest rate in order to support continued expansion and foster our policy goals. 
This two-scenario view seems consistent with the revised SEP. The policy dot plot is 
close to bimodal, with one group of participants believing holding pat on rates is appropriate and 
another group seeing rate cuts as appropriate. So this is a time when the dot plot is more 
informative about the views across participants and the sense of the Committee than the median 
path is. This bimodality poses some challenge for our statement in its current format, since the 
statement does not really allow for discussion of two scenarios. 

Now, the Committee is contemplating a change in the direction of policy at some point 
soon. This should not be taken lightly. It’s different from deciding on a next interest rate 
decrease after several have already occurred. This is a change in direction. 
I certainly understand the rationale for acting earlier and more decisively to negative 
shocks when short-term interest rates are near the lower bound. The models suggest this strategy 
yields better outcomes. However, these results depend on how the actions are interpreted by the 
public—namely, that they change expectations that the central bank will be taking actions to 
cushion the shocks. But we’re operating in an environment in which other policy has been 
capricious. In particular, concerns about trade policy have risen, and it’s this uncertainty 
associated with it that has created the concerns. In this environment, I don’t think we can depend 
on our actions not being misinterpreted as a signal of deterioration in the outlook rather than 
preemptive action. 
To me, this means, at this point, we should continue to gather more evidence to assess 
which scenario is most likely playing out. Is this a growth pause, or are the probabilities of a 
sharp deterioration in the outlook high enough to warrant a change in policy? Our next meeting 
is only six weeks away, a relatively short period. Now, it’s possible we will have enough 
evidence by then to make a determination. But, given the schedule of data releases and the 
typical data volatility, I believe it may take somewhat longer. 
This means, in terms of today’s statement, we should be cautious of signaling that a rate 
cut is coming in July. The changes in paragraph 2 have improved on the first version we saw. 
But, of course, the public sees only the changes from our previous statement—and not the 
evolution of our drafts. I’d like us to remain flexible. The new language is consistent with 

language the Chair has recently used, and the press conference offers an opportunity to expand 
and clarify. 
The problem is that I remain concerned, even with that language that’s been used, that 
we’ll ratify expectations for a change in policy in July when patience may be the best policy 
choice. A change in policy direction is a significant comment on our outlook for the economy, 
and I do think gathering more data is appropriate. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. I’d like to just say “ditto” and be done with it, but I can’t. [Laughter] 
But I do agree with Presidents Mester and Rosengren. I do favor alternative B as written, 
including the phrase in blue. I would not like to cut rates at this meeting, because I think that 
signals potentially that the economy is in a place that I don’t think it’s in—the economy is not as 
bad as would be signaled if we made a cut today. The language, though, implies that the next 
rate change will most likely be a cut. But I think the wording maintains the flexibility needed if 
incoming data point to another rate increase or, what I forecast, no change in the rate as being 
appropriate. 
Inflation does remain stubbornly low, and, although the latest economic data are largely 
disappointing, I think it’s premature to react to a few data points and the sense of gloom that 
seems to have enveloped the markets recently. However, the recovery seems to be on shakier 
footing, and the inversion of the yield curve is an unwelcome event. But, until the recent 
weakness shows some persistence, I don’t see the need for cutting rates at this meeting, and I’m 
on the fence right now about a July cut. On the one hand, labor markets remain robust, and 
consumers remain optimistic. But, as others have said, if inflation remains well below our target 

and inflation expectations continue to remain below target as well, then I think a rate cut could 
be justified. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B for today. The real 
economy still appears to be in good shape. Yes, there are important downside risks to growth, 
but they’ve not yet materialized into any meaningful softening in activity. 
Inflation is worrisome, however. It’s been too low for too long, and I fear this could 
continue to be the case unless our policy actions become more supportive of the symmetry of our 
mandate. So while I am in favor of alt-B today, I expect rate cuts will be desirable later this year 
to bolster progress toward our inflation objective. Indeed, I have two 25 basis point moves in my 
SEP submission for this round. Of course, such cuts would come with the side benefit of 
providing insurance against downside growth developments, but let me emphasize that, for me, 
the inflation risks alone support these policy moves. 
For some time, the appropriate policy rate paths in my SEP submissions have been 
designed to move inflation modestly above 2 percent in the forecast window. After years of 
underrunning our target, I think such overshooting is necessary for firmly establishing the 
symmetry of our inflation objective. I doubt that maintaining the current setting of policy rates 
can achieve this overshooting outcome. 
Importantly, it’s unclear to me that transitory factors are responsible for the large decline 
in core inflation this year or the pullback in the reports from my contacts about wage and price 
pressures. I worry that softer underlying trends in inflation expectations deserve a good deal of 
the blame. And I certainly agree with Governor Clarida and Presidents Daly, Bullard, and 

Kashkari that inflation expectations should be much more in line with our inflation objective of 
2 percent. 
The best way to boost these fundamentals to levels that are consistent with our symmetric 
2 percent objective is with a tangible demonstration of a stronger commitment to our inflation 
mandate. I worry, like President Kashkari, that 2 percent is viewed as a ceiling for our inflation 
objective. And, like Neel, I have argued that supporting symmetric inflation objectives is really 
important for avoiding, as best we can, the effects of the zero lower bound. So I think that’s 
going to be an important part of how we go forward. 
Accordingly, I now assume two 25 basis point funds rate cuts in the second half of 2019 
and then have the funds rate on hold into 2021. This policy setting, with continued good 
economic fundamentals, should lift inflation expectations enough that, by 2021, inflation will be 
clearly heading above 2 percent. 
In my forecast, I have inflation at 2¼ percent by late in 2021. With this overshooting 
solidly in train, we could begin to move rates up toward their long-run neutral level. In my SEP 
submission, I assume 50 basis points of tightening in 2021, leaving the funds rate in the range of 
2¼ to 2½ percent by the end of that year. I have to say, this is aggressively optimistic. I’m less 
than certain that the funds rate increase in 2021 is going to be appropriate, but that’s how we put 
it together. 
I also think that these policy assumptions are sensible from a risk-management 
perspective. First, the rate cuts provide insurance against the downside risks to growth. Second, 
the costs of being wrong about our reading of recent inflation developments are not symmetric, 
and I agree with President Bullard as he describes the silver lining in this case. If the recent 
decline in inflation turns out to be transitory, extra monetary accommodation would simply move 

forward the timing of the now-more-opportunistic inflation overshoot, and the FOMC could 
react by increasing rates a bit earlier than in my baseline. Or maybe not. The costs of reversing 
rate cuts somewhat sooner do not worry me so long as these actions generate inflation outcomes 
consistent with symmetry around 2 percent. 
In contrast, if the recent decline in inflation is driven by more persistent factors and we 
did not lower rates, our commitment to a 2 percent objective may be called into question. 
Inflation expectations could sag even more, and it would take even more accommodation to 
achieve our objective. So there are larger costs to this inflation undershooting misjudgment. 
In sum, I support alternative B today. But, in light of the concerns that I have about 
longer-run inflation trends, I believe we must be prepared to take explicit policy action in order 
to achieve our symmetric inflation mandate. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B. Of course, since 
May 1, downside risks to the outlook have increased due to heightened trade tension and 
decelerating rates of global growth. The question, which I continue to ask myself, is whether 
these uncertainties are likely to persist in a manner that leads to a material deterioration in the 
outlook for the U.S. economy. And my honest answer right now to this question is that it’s too 
soon to judge. I’m cognizant that we’ve got solid rates of economic growth, even with these 
uncertainties, and a labor market that I believe is either at or past full employment, even though 
we’ve got a PCE inflation rate somewhat below target. 
I believe, given this situation, it’s appropriate for the time being to still take a balanced 
approach to monetary policy. While I’m very concerned about inflation running below target, 
I’m still cognizant of the fact that the trimmed mean measure of PCE inflation is running at 

approximately 2 percent. We expect it to end the year at approximately 2 percent. And our 
Dallas Fed economists and I still agree with the argument that the trimmed mean should be a 
good indicator of future trends in PCE inflation. I have no illusions about this view and will 
continue to monitor that. 
I’m also cognizant of the fact that the cost of capital is historically low. Access to capital 
is historically high. Financial conditions are very strong. Markets remain near their all-time 
highs. 
I also am cognizant, with the federal funds rate even where it is today, at 2¼ to 2½ 
percent, that excesses and imbalances in the economy are likely to continue to build. I’m 
particularly concerned about the relative amount of corporate debt, particularly in triple-B and 
weaker segments. I’d be concerned that further accommodation would increase the likelihood of 
a buildup of greater imbalances and excesses, which may be difficult and painful to address in 
the future. 
I’m concerned about the Treasury yield curve being inverted from 3 months to 10 years, 
and I’m cognizant of the federal funds futures market calling for more than one rate reduction. 
However, I believe these conditions can change very quickly, as we saw from the fourth quarter 
of 2018 to today. 
I also worry more than a little bit about the echo chamber of both the FOMC responding 
to financial markets and the financial markets responding to expectations of what the Committee 
is going to do. In particular, I think the financial markets are responding not to what they think 
the FOMC should do, but to what they think it’s going to do. And I just think we should be 
cognizant of that. 

So in this intervening number of weeks, I’ll be closely watching developments in the U.S. 
economy and changes in financial conditions, particularly credit spreads—which, right now, are 
very tight—and availability of credit, to look for evidence that there is some persistence in 
uncertainties and some deterioration in the outlook for the economy, which would cause me to 
alter my views regarding monetary policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B. The word “patient” 
has worn out its welcome by now, and I view the revisions to the statement as appropriately 
acknowledging the uncertainties and risks associated with the outlook. At the same time, 
however, the new language gives me some pause, because it points not only to uncertainty, but 
also to muted inflation pressures, as the basis for future Committee action. I continue to view 
inflation developments in the context of our dual mandate. Easing policy in an attempt to 
increase inflation by a few tenths of 1 percentage point risks further overheating labor markets, 
misallocating resources, and fueling financial imbalances. Given the global structural factors 
that have been restraining inflation for some time, it remains unclear that easing would be 
effective in raising inflation. 
On the other hand, there are clearly downside risks to monitor. Growth in private 
domestic final sales weakened in the first quarter, and we’ve seen a loss of momentum in recent 
months. Like others, I’d expected to see slower real GDP growth this year, reflecting the waning 
of fiscal stimulus, the lagged effects of our past policy actions, and slower growth abroad. But 
the recent softer tone of the data has led me to mark down my own outlook for growth in the near 
term. 

Whether a policy response will be needed in the months ahead remains unclear to me, 
and I would not want our communication to solidify expectations for a rate cut at our next 
meeting. So I’ll be monitoring the data closely for risks to the ongoing expansion and would be 
prepared to take action if, in coming months, economic indicators call into question the 
expansion’s sustainability. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as currently written. It 
remains my baseline expectation that the domestic economy will continue to perform well in 
2019. 
Since our previous meeting, the outlook for economic growth abroad has weakened, and 
concerns about ongoing trade negotiations have intensified. That said, we’re still in a favorable 
position with regard to our dual mandate. The labor market continues to be very strong. The 
unemployment rate remains at its lowest level in 50 years, and various indicators of labor 
demand and hiring activity point to continued strength. 
Real GDP rose at a strong pace last quarter and looks to be increasing again this quarter. 
Although there have been some tentative signs of softening in business investment and 
sentiment, data suggest consumer spending growth has remained at a healthy pace. Financing 
conditions for both households and businesses continue to be favorable. 
The recent readings on price inflation continue to be below our 2 percent target. But, 
given the tight labor market and my expectation that real GDP growth will be at or above its 
long-run trend rate this year, I remain hopeful that the recent softness in prices will prove to be 
transitory, and that we will see inflation move back up close to its target before year-end. 

Given all of the information we currently have in hand, I don’t believe an adjustment to 
our policy stance would be appropriate at this point, although developments since our previous 
meeting have tipped the scales in that direction. Of course, along with the rest of the Committee, 
I’ll be watching inflation closely in the coming months, and my assessment may change if 
inflation does not show signs of firming or if the current uncertainties surrounding the outlook 
persist long enough to have a material effect on economic activity. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the policy action outlined in 
alternative B. As I noted yesterday, the information my team and I have gathered over the 
intermeeting period suggests the economy will continue along a steady trajectory moving 
forward. This is in line with my outlook, and I thus have the same view on the appropriate 
course of policy as I’ve had for the past few meetings: Wait, watch, and act only if new 
information suggests that the economy’s performance is likely to significantly deviate from its 
present course in one direction or another. I therefore see no need for the Committee to take a 
policy action moving in any direction today. 
At the previous meeting, my view on the risks to the economy were such that I expected 
the economy to recover strongly in the latter half of the year. Today, I do not have that view, as 
I’ve taken on board the increase in downside risks acknowledged by contacts and our Survey of 
Business Uncertainty and the data. I have thus shifted down my appropriate policy rate path for 
the remainder of 2019 to have no additional increases. 
I need to say explicitly that my downgrade does not signal a view that the economy has 
weakened sufficiently to require additional stimulus. Like the outlooks of President George and 
others, my outlook had 2019 growth lower than in 2018, so I expected some pullback. And I 

have not seen indicators that suggest a more dramatic pullback in performance is imminent. I 
would need to see something more significant before I would support moving to a more 
accommodative policy position. 
Given the current climate, the communication that comes with the proposed policy action 
will play a critical role in how our action is received. My view is that we need to make two 
points. First, we need to note that the economy is growing at a healthy clip and above its long-
run level, which suggests that additional stimulus is not required right now. And, second, we 
need to acknowledge the heightened nervousness associated with uncertainty and pledge to be 
aggressive in our data and information gathering over the next six weeks to discern any signs of 
material weakness to the extent such signs emerge. 
In my view, the statement as newly constituted succeeds at the first and basically hits the 
mark in terms of the second. It is an improvement over the previous proposed language, and I 
think it’s really important that we signal vigorous effort on our part to discover any sustained 
trends that might portend trouble. In my view, we haven’t seen such trends yet. I’m very open 
to the possibility that I might find them in the near term. And if I do, I will advocate for policy 
stimulus to mitigate them. 
I feel compelled to close with a concern I have about the Committee’s policy actions in 
the context of market and political chatter. I’m very concerned that an action we take for a 
legitimate economic reason might be understood by external parties as being motivated by a 
different reason. And today the potential for such a misinterpretation looms large. There are 
serious risks if our Committee is viewed as being driven by—and you can read that as “will 
capitulate to”—political or financial market whims or desires. We will have bigger problems 

down the road if the Committee is perceived as being “reactionary” or as acting for reasons other 
than what is necessary to support the real economy in pursuit of the dual mandate. 
To this end, the appropriate response to this, in my view, is doubling down on data and 
not leaning too heavily on signaling a particular policy action in a direction in the future. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most likely path for the economy 
remains solid—and not much changed from the last time we met. The latest data suggest that 
consumer spending remains robust and consumer confidence remains high, which reflects 
ongoing strength in the labor market. Unemployment is at a 50-year low, and labor force 
participation has improved significantly, along with moderate growth in wages. Initial claims 
are at cyclical lows. Inflation is soft and measures of inflation expectations have softened, which 
is troubling. But financial conditions overall remain supportive relative to their historical 
average and have tightened only marginally in recent weeks. On the basis of these factors alone, 
the case for a rate cut today implied by the modal outlook is little changed since the discussion 
we had on May 1. 
But the escalation of trade conflicts since May 5 poses significant downside risks. The 
sentiment of business contacts and market participants has darkened—starting with the 
escalation of tariff threats on May 5, and continuing a few days later with the Mexico 
immigration-related tariff threat, which many saw as a game changer in threatening tariffs in 
response to issues entirely unrelated to trade. Crosscurrents due to elevated policy uncertainty 
have strengthened, crimping business investment plans, exacerbating foreign growth challenges, 
and materially raising market indicators of recession probabilities. Peer central banks are 

seeking additional policy space to address growth and inflation disappointments, and this in turn 
may have implications for financial conditions and inflationary developments here. A variety of 
market-based recession indicators are flashing warning signs with greater urgency. Separately, 
the latest data on inflation and on inflation expectations have been disappointing, making it all 
the more imperative that we maintain the forward momentum of the expansion. 
So basic principles of risk management, particularly in a low neutral rate environment 
with compressed conventional policy space, would suggest that the increase in downside risks 
warrants a downward adjustment to the modal path of the policy rate. These downside risks, if 
realized, could weigh on economic activity. On their own, heightened downside risks to output 
and employment would argue for a softer federal funds rate path to sustain the expansion. 
A reduction in the federal funds rate before the modal outlook has deteriorated can be 
seen as taking out insurance against the realization of these risks, which is prudent, in light of the 
greater proximity to the effective lower bound compared with historical norms. In the event that 
the risks do not materialize, this would provide a modest boost to the outlook. An 
accommodative stance of policy at a time when the unemployment rate is already at historic lows 
should boost our credibility in achieving the inflation target. However, my own conviction is 
that successfully moving underlying trend inflation back to target on a sustainable basis will 
require a broader change in our longer-term framework and will not be achieved through a 25 or 
50 basis point cut in the near term. 
I have noted in the past that the one reason to be cautious about maintaining a “low for 
long” policy rate path with growth continuing to run above potential is the risk of exacerbating 
exuberance in financial and credit markets. Experience suggests that financial market risk 
appetite and private-sector leverage are highly pro-cyclical, and current, elevated risky corporate 

debt and associated asset valuations are consistent with that pattern. But such financial excesses 
should be addressed by activation of our countercyclical capital buffer, more rigorous use of our 
stress tests, and more muscular monitoring of leveraged lending across the financial sector, not 
by diverting monetary policy to financial stability concerns. 
Although I’m anticipating that a downward tilt to the path of the federal funds rate will 
occur, I support alternative B today. The language in alternative B removes the reference to 
patience from the May statement. Alongside the shift of roughly half of the SEP participants to 
projecting a 50 basis point cut in the federal funds rate by the end of this year, these changes in 
statement language should be read as signaling that a future cut in interest rates is on the table. 
In the summer months, we will have the opportunity to gather significantly more information, 
especially with respect to the uncertainty surrounding trade as well as fiscal policy, that could be 
very consequential, both for the modal outlook and for the balance of risks. 
Finally, consistent with the projected decrease in the federal funds rate, I would also want 
to see the balance sheet runoff brought to a clean end in September, with trend growth resuming 
a few months thereafter, in order to eliminate any possible confusion in our communications or 
an unnecessary volatility in rates at a delicate time. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll join my colleagues at this side of the table, 
concluding what I would describe as an inside straight. [Laughter] I confess, after my several 
ineffective pleas to remove the word “patient,” I was pleased to see and happily support today’s 
alternative B and its “as appropriate” language. 

I continue to want to limit forward guidance to the times we need it the most. To that 
end, in contrast to the views of some of us and likely in contrast to the views of the market, I 
view our statement as a “no forward guidance” statement. 
To be clear: In line with what several others have said, I’m open to lowering rates if and 
when real GDP growth falters. But while I’m nervous about the confidence of businesses and 
consumers, growth and employment still seem to be above trend. 
I’m sensitive to the signals from markets, but I worry that we risk deepening the 
perception that we respond too readily. I also think that heightened uncertainty will be with us 
for some time. So it’s critical that we not be seen as too ready to respond to every move. 
I hear the argument that we should move in response to inflation or inflation 
expectations. And although I, too, want to deliver symmetric 2 percent inflation, when I take a 
step back, our current gap is small. Our tools are not precise, and our recent pivots in the rate 
path might well provide the impetus, in time, for inflation to meet or exceed our target. So a cut 
focused only on stimulating inflation feels premature at this time. Instead, we should remind 
ourselves and the public that, for all of the noise, we remain very, very close to our mandated 
goals and, in that context, are reluctant to tinker too much for an uncertain and imprecise return. 
Doing so also limits the risk—which I think is uncomfortably close to reality—that we 
inadvertently become the voices for a self-fulfilling prophecy of low expected inflation. Thank 
you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’m comfortable with alternative B as written. 
I’m happy to see the word “patience” go. I think it’s appropriate to signal, given the prevailing 
uncertainties, that we will be responsive to economic developments as they develop—and 

quickly, if necessary. Like President Bostic, I prefer the current language in the statement to the 
language that was circulated in the first draft. 
The market currently expects a cut in July, with further cuts later in the year. From my 
viewpoint, the market has gotten ahead of itself, and I think there is value in maintaining 
optionality regarding July. In that connection, I’d emphasize, as President Bullard emphasized in 
the other direction, that, as a Committee, if we say we’re waiting to see how the economy 
evolves, we have to believe there is a reasonable possibility that we will not cut in July. And if 
we don’t think there’s a reasonable possibility that the economy will evolve in that direction, 
then we should cut now. But I don’t view the case for a cut as being tremendously strong either 
now or in July, with the economy still growing at a healthy pace, most recently evidenced by 
robust retail sales, and the labor market still very strong. Inflation does remain subdued by some 
measures but not by others, as President Kaplan mentioned, and likely should climb back to 
target, even on our stated measure, by the end of the year. But even with all of that, I am 
cognizant of the risks to the forecast and would change my view if my outlook were to 
deteriorate by the time of our next meeting. 
Over the longer term, I still project a longer-term neutral rate that is a few rate hikes 
above the current policy rate. This estimate is premised on my assessment that potential growth 
is likely to pick up, although, as I mentioned yesterday, I’ll be carefully watching investment 
trends to see if I have to revisit that forecast. 
One development that I view as supporting that outlook is the recent pickup in labor 
productivity. The 2.4 percent increase in output per hour that we’ve observed over the four 
quarters that ended in Q1 represents a considerable acceleration after the extended period of 
sluggish growth in which we have been mired post-crisis. Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. 
At our previous meeting, I viewed the economic outlook as highly favorable, with above-trend 
growth supporting a robust labor market and inflation moving back to our 2 percent target over 
time. Now, this balance of strong growth and low inflation argued for maintaining the target rate 
near neutral. Since then, the outlook has dimmed on all fronts and become decidedly less clear, 
and this shift in the outlook and risks calls for a repositioning of our posture to one of readiness 
to adjust course as appropriate. And the statement conveys that very effectively. 
In thinking about the future course of policy, an assessment of the risks of too easy or too 
tight policy suggests that the balance has moved in the direction of erring on the side of 
additional accommodation. In this regard, my remarks are going to follow pretty closely those of 
Presidents Bullard and Evans and others. If we err on the side of being too accommodative, the 
risk, of course, is that the economy will outperform and will reach our 2 percent inflation goal 
faster than anticipated. Obviously, that’s a manageable risk. It could even have the side benefit 
of demonstrating that we really mean it when we say we have a symmetric 2 percent inflation 
goal. 
On the other hand, if we err by being too restrictive and the economy underperforms, the 
consequences may be more dire. For one, the economy would be at greater risk of a downturn. 
Second, inflation expectations, already showing signs of fragility, could really become unmoored 
from our target, like we’ve seen in Japan and the euro area. And here I’d like to associate myself 
completely with Governor Clarida’s remarks about how, really, the sign of success is that 
inflation expectations are anchored at our target. You know, if you think about what the 
consequences of inflation expectations going lower are, it’s not just some loss of credibility or 

inflation being a little bit lower. It is actually just taking away our policy space to respond to the 
next downturn. 
If you look at the euro area, the five-year, five-year-ahead inflation swaps are at 
1.2 percent, as I said. My estimate of the neutral real rate in Europe is about minus ¼ percentage 
point. That means that the neutral nominal interest rate in Europe is about 1 percent in a strong 
and healthy economy. So that’s the policy space that the euro area appears to have right now. 
Similarly, for Japan, estimates of the neutral real rate are about 0 percent. Inflation 
expectations are around 1 percent. Again, when inflation expectations drift that low, it basically 
means you have less ammunition when you’re confronting the next recession, and that’s not a 
situation that we want to be in. 
Finally, as Governor Brainard highlighted—and I think I’m essentially saying exactly the 
same thing you said—we don’t have a ton of policy space, to say the least. And one important 
lesson, coming from research and experience, is that, when confronting negative shocks to the 
economy, you don’t want to keep your powder dry, but instead you should act aggressively to 
add monetary stimulus. This does argue against being overly patient or waiting until the data, 
which are always backward looking, provide 100 percent certainty that a slowdown is in train. 
So it would be a mistake to be too timid, given the amount of policy space we have, in 
responding to negative shocks. 
Now, of course, the change in tone of economic data is relatively fresh, and it may not 
persist. We may find that the downbeat data that we’ve been seeing fully reverse themselves in 
the next month or so, and I hope that happens. If, in contrast, my assessment of the overall 
outlook does not improve, I would expect that a 25 basis point rate cut will be appropriate at our 

next meeting in July in order to maintain a strong economy and achievement of our symmetric 2 
percent inflation goal. 
Finally, I’d just like to mention something about market reaction to our statement and 
how my colleagues at the New York Fed think. We’ve had a lot of discussions about this. And 
there was some discussion this morning about, let’s try to, perfectly, communicate what we’re 
thinking and how we’re thinking about it. I actually don’t think there is any perfect way of doing 
this, given the situation. 
Right now, there’s basically a bimodal view out in the market about what the Fed is 
going to do. If you look at the views of dealers, the economists at those firms, they’re more in 
the camp of this side of the table, thinking that we won’t lower rates for some time. A lot of 
these are former Fed economists there. So you hear a lot of commentary that we won’t lower 
rates or we won’t lower rates maybe until later this year. On the other side, the “buy” side, we 
definitely see a lot of views already that July is when we’re going to cut—maybe even 50 basis 
points. 
Given this bimodal distribution, any communication that we do and, obviously, what the 
Chair does today is going to move market expectations one way or the other. If we reiterate 
what we’ve been saying, the July camp is going to find validation in that, and the people more on 
the dealer/sell side are going to move their expectations, and it will be viewed as “dovish.” If we 
fight the expectation that’s out there that July is a high probability and push against that, then, 
obviously, we’re going to have a move the other way. 
So my point is that, like this Committee, there is this bimodal distribution out there in 
beliefs and no matter how we communicate what we’re doing, it is going to move views and 
expectations among these various groups. You know, this idea that we can somehow avoid 

cementing in a July move is, I think, very hard to accomplish, given this distribution of beliefs, 
unless we were to push hard against the view that future rate cuts are on the table. So I think we 
just need to be realistic about that. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And thanks for an interesting round of interventions. I 
heard some discussion of language issues with alt-B, but I heard no proposed substitute 
language, so I think we’re just going to go ahead and move to a vote. I’ll ask Jim to make clear 
what we’re voting on and to read the roll. 
MR. CLOUSE. Thank you. The vote will be on the monetary policy statement as it 
appears on page 4 of Thomas’s briefing materials, and the vote will also encompass the directive 
to the Desk as it appears in the implementation note shown on pages 8 and 9 of Thomas’s 
briefing materials. 
Chair Powell Yes 
Vice Chair Williams Yes 
Governor Bowman Yes 
Governor Brainard Yes 
President Bullard No 
Governor Clarida Yes 
President Evans Yes 
President George Yes 
President Rosengren Yes 
Governor Quarles Yes 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Now we have two sets of related matters under the 
Board’s jurisdiction: corresponding settings of interest rates on reserves and discount rates. 
May I have a motion from a Board member to take the proposed action with respect to the 
interest rates on reserves as set forth in the first paragraph associated with policy alternative B on 
the last page of Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 

MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. Now may I have a motion from a 
Board member to take the proposed actions with respect to the primary credit rate and the rates 
for secondary and seasonal credit as set forth in the second paragraph associated with policy 
alternative B on the last page of Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Now, before we confirm the date of our next 
meeting, I’d like to turn the floor over to Governor Clarida for a few words on the status of the 
work of the communications subcommittee. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you very much, Chair Powell. I’ll be brief. The 
communications subcommittee met yesterday, as is our custom, and discussed two related items. 
One, earlier in the spring, we reached out to each of you to gauge your interest and your 
suggestions for ways in which the SEP may be improved or refined. So we are beginning to 
discuss those ideas. Also, at the Chicago conference, one of the papers by Cecchetti and 
Schoenholtz had a number of specific suggestions for ways in which the SEP could be refined 
and improved, and we’re also beginning to discuss those. 
On a related point, we’ve had seven Fed Listens events so far, including the Chicago 
event recently. So, again, thank you to President Evans and his team for hosting a fabulous 
event. Each of the Reserve Banks has scheduled a Fed Listens event, and the remaining ones 
will be taking place in future months. 

At this point in the framework review process, as we’ve discussed, the process moves 
inside this room now. And in future FOMC meetings, we will be discussing on the agenda 
varied aspects of the framework review, with briefings from the staff. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
MR. EVANS. May I ask a question? 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. It sounded like the paper by Cecchetti and Schoenholtz was taking on a bit 
more weight in your deliberations than I might have thought from the presentation and 
discussion. Is that right? And I just wonder—having served on the subcommittee in the past and 
the way these things have evolved, I guess I would encourage, on these important issues, even 
more discussion among the nonmembers of the subcommittee. There has been good discussion. 
It’s just that these are pretty important— 
MR. CLARIDA. Oh, sure. Well, again, it was at the conference, so we felt that we 
wanted to have some discussion among ourselves about what was in there. But, obviously, this 
is all something that—any aspect of the framework review will have to be, of course, discussed 
in this group and in this room. So, yes—thank you. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Before we break up, I want to return to something. 
There are eight who have written down rate cuts, and there are nine who haven’t. And my 
objective going into this is to achieve that impossible thing of not moving expectations at all. So 
I can imagine a question like, what about the nine who don’t? And that’s why I mentioned in my 
intervention yesterday the idea that, of the nine, there are some who see the case as having 
strengthened—not made, but strengthened. That’s why I asked for your reactions. I hear 
consistent reactions around the table but nothing specific on that. But I really need to know 

whether I can say that without people feeling that I’ve gotten ahead of where they are. So if you 
feel that way, feel free to say so either privately or here. 
I want to be able to address the question of the nine who have not written down rate cuts 
in a way that suggests that they’re not, you know, “No way, no how.” So you have a split 
Committee, which would be just the kind of thing journalists would like to write about. I don’t 
know that it’s going there, but I’m inclined to say something that creates optionality regarding 
actually being able to cut, as opposed to walking into a sort of “split Committee” narrative. So I 
would—please, Esther. 
MS. GEORGE. I was just going to say; I guess the way I think about it is that as opposed 
to saying with my own flat path that that means “open to cutting,” I guess it is more a realization 
of downside risk. In other words, it is taking in the fact that the language that’s in that statement 
about monitoring incoming information has taken on, I think, a more prominent role relative to 
the previous meeting. That might lead you to conclude, if things go badly then you’d be open to 
a rate cut—that would be true. But I guess the emphasis would not be on saying, in the case of a 
flat path, “clearly open to more accommodation,” as opposed to “clearly recognizing downside 
risk and looking at incoming information.” 
CHAIR POWELL. Loretta. 
MS. MESTER. Yes, I was going to say the same thing. The emphasis would be on the 
“monitoring” part of your language in the statement, as opposed to necessarily saying which way 
we’re tipping—but recognizing there are risks. 
CHAIR POWELL. Any others? 
MR. KAPLAN. I think—and we’ve talked—you’re obviously making the point that, if 
you go back to literally May 1 or April 30, whenever your most recent press conference was, in 

that six or seven weeks, conditions and uncertainties have deteriorated. And I’m fine to say that 
the case has strengthened, but we’re cognizant of the fact this heightening of uncertainties is 
recent, and we’d like to take more time to just see how events unfold. But, certainly, downside 
risks have increased, so I agree with “the case has strengthened.” But this is a recent 
weakening—that is, just since the most recent press conference. 
CHAIR POWELL. I’m going to make the case of recency and a need to see more. In 
fact, I think I’m going to point to the fact that the original Mexico tariff announcement was less 
than three weeks ago, and that was really the event that—I mean, it’s 19 days ago. So it’s too 
soon to be reacting. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. You can certainly use your language for me on the “strengthen.” As I 
listened around the room, I think it might also be the case that the group that didn’t have rate cuts 
was thinking more about growth than inflation, just on the margin. 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes. I picked that up. 
MR. BARKIN. And I don’t know if that’s helpful or not. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Well, I think that’s a very helpful comment, because my counterpoint to 
that, from my own perspective, is I would be comfortable with cutting today if that was the 
consensus for the inflation side of this. I view the wording in alt-B as something that I can agree 
to. I wouldn’t necessarily have written it down exactly this way myself. It tends to emphasize 
the real-side risks and less the inflation undershooting and the strategic concern about inflation 
being interpreted as a ceiling. It says “muted inflation,” but it focuses on monitoring the 
economic outlook and doesn’t mention inflation per se, which is pretty typical in that it mentions 
inflation near its symmetric 2 percent objective. So those are things that, for my own sake, I 

would emphasize inflation more. And I recognize that that’s different from the viewpoint that is 
most likely to be represented in the commentary. 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. This is really helpful. Thank you. 
So where does that leave us? That leaves us with the important job of confirming that the 
next meeting will be on Tuesday and Wednesday, July 30 and 31, 2019, right here in this room. 
And that concludes the meeting. As always, a healthy buffet lunch will be served in the adjacent 
anteroom starting at 11:30. Thanks very much, everybody. 
END OF MEETING

===== FOMC MEETING 2019-07-31 =====

Meet
ing of the Federal Open Market Committee 
July 30–31, 2019 
A
 joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board of Governors was held in 
the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on 
Tuesday, July 30, 2019, at 10:00 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, July 31, 2019, at 9:00 a.m. 
PR
ESENT: 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
James Bullard 
Richard H. Clarida 
Charles L. Evans 
Esther L. George 
Randal K. Quarles 
Eric Rosengren 
P
atrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Michael Strine, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
T
homas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, and Mary C. Daly, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively 
Jam
es A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Michael Held, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
Thomas Laubach, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
R
ochelle M. Edge, Beverly Hirtle, Christopher J. Waller, William Wascher, and Beth Anne 
Wilson, Associate Economists 
L
orie K. Logan, Manager pro tem, System Open Market Account 
A
nn E. Misback,1 Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
1 Attended through the discussion of economic developments and outlook. 

Eric Belsky,2 Director, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors; 
Matthew J. Eichner,3 Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board of Governors; Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors 
 
Margie Shanks,4 Deputy Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
 
Arthur Lindo, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors; 
Trevor A. Reeve, Deputy Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Joshua Gallin, Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Brian M. Doyle,
5 Wendy E. Dunn, Joseph W. Gruber, Ellen E. Meade, and John M. Roberts, 
Special Advisers to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Shaghil Ahmed, Senior Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors; David E. Lebow and Michael G. Palumbo, Senior Associate Directors, Division 
of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Don Kim, Edward Nelson, and Robert J. Tetlow, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors; S. Wayne Passmore, Senior Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Marnie Gillis DeBoer and Min Wei, Associate Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors; Elizabeth Klee, Associate Director, Division of Financial Stability, 
Board of Governors; John J. Stevens, Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, 
Board of Governors 
 
Norman J. Morin, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of 
Governors; Andrea Raffo, Deputy Associate Director, Division of International Finance, 
Board of Governors; Jeffrey D. Walker,
3 Deputy Associate Director, Division of Reserve 
Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board of Governors 
 
Etienne Gagnon, Section Chief, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Penelope A. Beattie,2 Assistant to the Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
 
 
2 Attended the discussion of the review of monetary policy framework. 
3 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. 
4 Attended the discussion of economic developments and outlook through discussion of monetary policy. 
5 Attended Tuesday session only. 

David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Alyssa G. Anderson, Principal Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors; Dario Caldara2 and Albert Queralto,2 Principal Economists, Division of 
International Finance, Board of Governors 
 
Isabel Cairó,2 Senior Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Randall A. Williams, Senior Information Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
Ellen J. Bromagen, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
 
David Altig, Michael Dotsey, and Jeffrey Fuhrer, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve 
Banks of Atlanta, Philadelphia, and Boston, respectively 
 
Marc Giannoni,
2 Spencer Krane, and Paula Tkac,2 Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve 
Banks of Dallas, Chicago, and Atlanta, respectively 
 
Robert G. Valletta, Group Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
 
Terry Fitzgerald, Christopher J. Neely,2 and Patricia Zobel, Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve 
Banks of Minneapolis, St. Louis, and New York, respectively 
 
Andreas L. Hornstein, Senior Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
 
Karel Mertens, Senior Economic Policy Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
 
Joseph G. Haubrich, Senior Economic and Policy Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland 
 
Brent Bundick, Research and Policy Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
 
Vasco Curdia,
2 Research Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco

Transcript of the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting on 
July 30–31, 2019 
 
July 30 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. 
PARTICIPANTS. Good morning. 
CHAIR POWELL. This meeting, as usual, will be a joint meeting of the FOMC and the 
Board. I need a motion from a Board member to close the meeting. 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Our first agenda item is the initial installment on 
our strategic review of the monetary policy framework. 
Before we jump into this, let me say that I am very pleased—even excited—that the 
review has now reached this phase of deliberations within the Committee. I think the very fact 
of the review and the design of the review have been very well received by the constituencies we 
serve, by our elected oversight committees, and by the central banking community around the 
world. Many others are considering following our lead on this. I think the conception and the 
execution so far have been flawless. The Fed Listens events have really worked, and the 
branding is just exceptional. 
And now these issues come before the Committee, so I very much look forward to this 
phase of the process. I think it has already been a big gain for process transparency and 
accountability, and I am hopeful that the substantive considerations and decisions and 
communications that come out of the review will also put us in a better place relative to our 
mandate and those we serve. And, with that, let’s get started with the staff briefings from Marc, 
Etienne, and Vasco. Marc, would you like to begin? 

MR. GIANNONI.1 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’ll be referring to the handout 
labeled “Material for Briefing on Review of Monetary Policy Framework.” Today’s 
discussion begins your internal deliberation of the Fed’s monetary policy 
framework—that is, the goals, tools, strategies, and communication employed by the 
FOMC to achieve its congressionally mandated goals. Before giving the floor to 
Etienne Gagnon and Vasco Curdia for their summaries of the two staff memos that 
we sent you, I would like to highlight a few general issues regarding the staff’s work 
in support of your review and provide a brief roadmap. 
Because the current framework has evolved significantly in recent years, it may 
be helpful to define what lies within the current framework and what options might 
lie outside it. During this review, we will use a working definition of the current 
framework that is summarized on the first slide. According to this definition, the 
framework includes everything articulated in the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and 
Monetary Policy Strategy as well as the use of tools that have already been employed 
by the Committee—namely, conventional interest rate policy, forward guidance, and 
balance sheet policies. In addition, we interpret the consensus statement as implying 
a let “bygones be bygones” approach, in which the history of inflation does not affect 
the current setting of monetary policy. In our reading of history, the Committee to 
date has not communicated or acted as if a commitment to offsetting past inflation 
misses was part of its framework. We recognize that the Committee hasn’t agreed on 
this definition of its current framework. But, for clarity of the work that the staff will 
be presenting at this and coming meetings, we thought that we had to pick a 
definition. 
The key features of the consensus statement are summarized in slide 2. That 
document reiterates the elements of the dual mandate, specifies an explicit numerical 
inflation objective, and provides a corresponding numerical estimate related to the 
employment leg of the mandate. It also emphasizes the Committee’s concern about 
deviations of inflation on either side of the target value and articulates the balanced 
approach in addressing deviations of employment and inflation from their goals. In 
addition, it acknowledges the importance of the balance of risks, including risks to the 
financial system. 
As noted in the bottom of slide 2, the consensus statement does not mention how 
the framework operates in the vicinity of the effective lower bound, nor whether 
anchored inflation expectations are necessary conditions for price stability, and it 
does not endorse a strategy that would aim for 2 percent inflation, on average, or 
“over the cycle.” These aspects of the consensus statement will presumably be at the 
heart of your discussions in coming months. 
A number of ongoing developments in macroeconomic structure have arguably 
stressed the current framework and raise the question of whether the current 
framework will serve the Committee well in addressing future downturns. These 
environmental features, which are summarized in slide 3, include a low and uncertain 
 
1 The materials used by Messrs. Giannoni, Gagnon, and Curdia are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). 

neutral real rate of interest, or r*—which likely implies a higher likelihood of hitting 
the effective lower bound; persistently lower realized inflation that may lead to a 
slippage of long-run expectations below 2 percent—which may, in turn, slow the 
return of inflation to target; and changes in the inflation process due, for instance, to 
changing and eternally uncertain natural rate of unemployment or u*, a decline in the 
responsiveness of inflation to real activity, or other factors leading to persistently 
lower inflation. 
In support of your discussions over the next several meetings, staff memos will 
entertain two types of alterations to policy, as shown in slide 4. The first is to use 
your tools differently, but still within the guardrails implied by the current 
framework, benefiting from what you have learned about the efficacy of these tools 
and the costs associated with using them. The second set of alterations would entail a 
change in the framework. During the course of this framework review, the staff work 
will explore strategies that take the 2 percent inflation goal as given but, in some 
circumstances, intentionally move inflation away from the 2 percent goal—a key 
feature of “makeup” policies. 
Slide 5 summarizes the areas that the staff memos will explore. The first memo, 
which Etienne will summarize, is designed to draw the lessons from the post–Great 
Recession period about the efficacy and costs arising from use of your tools as well as 
discussing whether the current framework imposes any limitations on the use of these 
tools. The second memo, summarized by Vasco, focuses on the policy challenges 
and tradeoffs posed by the structural changes noted earlier. The next set of memos, to 
be presented in September, will introduce two fundamental questions. First: As we 
look forward, in light of the challenging structural changes already noted, is the 
current framework likely to be effective in confronting the challenges of making 
sustained progress toward the 2 percent inflation goal and responding to potential 
ELB episodes? Second, how do some widely discussed alternatives to the current 
framework work, and how might they help overcome these structural and 
environmental changes? Throughout the memos, robustness to alternative 
assumptions about economic behavior is a major theme. 
Beyond September, the staff currently plan to present an analysis of the 
distributional consequences of monetary policy, a theme that has emerged as a focal 
point in the Fed Listens efforts. Following the discussion of strategies, the staff will 
also prepare memos considering ways to evolve the use of its tools in a future 
downturn, including the choice between date-based and state-based forward guidance, 
the use of negative interest rates, as well as alternative approaches to balance sheet 
policies, focusing especially on quantity-target versus rate-target balance sheet 
policies. The essential point with respect to the later memos is that it is the intention 
of the steering group to confer with the Committee throughout the process to ensure 
that the material put before you is on point with respect to the questions and issues 
that you deem most relevant. I will now hand it off to Etienne. 
MR. GAGNON. Thanks, Marc. The decade since the financial crisis has been a 
period of dramatic changes in the conduct of monetary policy, here and abroad, in 

response to unprecedented challenges. As you begin your deliberations about the 
monetary policy framework, it seems natural to ask what lessons the experience of the 
past decade may hold that are relevant in potentially revising your framework. The 
two memos that Vasco and I will summarize are, in different ways, directed at this 
goal. 
The materials for the memo “Monetary Policy and Economic Performance since 
the Financial Crisis” start on slide 6. The memo first reviews macroeconomic 
outcomes from the crisis onward, a period that saw significant deviations from 
mandated goals. Starting with maximum employment, slide 6 shows that the crisis 
boosted the unemployment rate (the black line) to 10 percent, well above the range of 
estimates of its longer-run normal level in the SEP at the time (the blue area). 
Despite impaired policy transmission channels, the unemployment rate fell more 
rapidly than following the recessions of the early 1990s and 2000s, though not as 
rapidly as during the 1980s. Regarding price stability, slide 7 shows that headline and 
core PCE inflation sank during the crisis. Inflation has run modestly below 2 percent 
for most of the time since the FOMC formalized 2 percent as its longer-run goal in 
2012, even as the unemployment rate has fallen to a near 50-year low. 
One concern is that repeated undershooting of the inflation goal could erode 
households’ and businesses’ longer-run inflation expectations. Slide 8 shows that 
some measures, such as TIPS compensation (the black line) and median Michigan 
expectations (the red line), have weakened in recent years. Other measures, such as 
the median PCE inflation estimate in the SPF (the blue line), remain near pre-crisis 
levels. Whether longer-run inflation expectations are consistent, on balance, with 
sustained achievement of the 2 percent goal is debatable. We have seen in other 
economies that slippage of longer-term inflation expectations can reduce already 
limited policy space even further and severely constrain central banks’ ability to 
provide necessary accommodation. 
Several aspects of the U.S. economic performance surprised policymakers and 
market participants. Most expected stronger economic activity and a faster return of 
inflation to 2 percent than was realized. Most also underestimated the speed and 
extent of the fall in unemployment. And, as slide 9 shows, policymakers and market 
participants repeatedly postponed the expected date of liftoff from the ELB. Our 
memo traces these surprises in part to the structural transformations that Marc 
described and that Vasco will discuss further, which were difficult to discern in real 
time and whose evolution remains uncertain. 
As Marc also noted, the policy framework also changed this past decade. 
Notably, the Committee deployed balance sheet policies and forward guidance on 
unprecedented scales and with limited knowledge of their benefits and costs. A 
majority of observers view these tools as having eased financial conditions, supported 
employment and inflation, and made up for some, though not all, of the shortfall in 
policy accommodation that would otherwise have been brought about by the ELB. 
Some had expressed fears that asset purchases would trigger an inflation outburst, 

induce excessive risk-taking, or disrupt market functioning. These worries did not 
become reality. 
We believe that the FOMC could have pursued even more accommodative 
policies at the ELB under the current framework, had it deemed it appropriate. 
Before 2015, slack was abundant and most participants saw inflation below 2 percent 
over the medium term under appropriate policy. In this context, more forceful 
policies need not have led to an overshoot of the inflation goal and thus could have 
been consistent with the current framework. Model simulations suggest that greater 
policy accommodation early in the recovery would have been beneficial. 
In particular, the foreign experience suggests that the Federal Reserve could have 
conducted even larger asset purchases. As slide 10 shows, the Federal Reserve 
boosted its balance sheet less, as a fraction of GDP, than did the ECB, the Bank of 
England, and especially the Bank of Japan. That said, because the short-run Phillips 
curve is flat, the FOMC would have needed to expand the balance sheet considerably 
to raise inflation even modestly, possibly complicating the eventual reduction of the 
balance sheet. In addition, some evidence suggests that, though beneficial, the 
macroeconomic effects of LSAPs abroad may have been smaller for more recent than 
earlier programs. 
With respect to forward guidance, we note that the Committee made only 
moderate use of this tool for most of the period. Consequently, we see the FOMC’s 
ability to use forward guidance to engineer a substantial easing of financial conditions 
as largely untested. 
Slide 11 summarizes our memo’s mixed conclusions about economic 
performance and monetary policy under the current framework. To some extent, the 
outcomes of the past decade reflect the challenges of conducting monetary policy in a 
changing economy using untested tools, rather than the shortcomings of the 
framework. We have learned that the Committee had space to do more. And so it 
could act more forcefully in the future, even under the current framework. A key 
concern is that inflation has run modestly below 2 percent for many years, and that 
some measures of longer-run inflation expectations are low. Thus, an important 
unresolved issue facing the Committee is whether it can, under the current 
framework, keep these expectations anchored at levels consistent with achievement of 
its symmetric inflation goal. Vasco will now continue our briefing. 
MR. CURDIA. Thank you, Etienne. My presentation materials start on slide 12. 
Key features of the economy have recently changed in ways that make the conduct of 
monetary policy more challenging, as Marc had mentioned. First, both the natural 
rate of interest, or r*, and the natural rate of unemployment, or u*, were revised down 
in recent years, and substantial uncertainty remains about their values. Second, the 
response of inflation to economic slack appears to have fallen in recent times—that is, 
the short-run Phillips curve has flattened. Third, there is now a higher probability of 
hitting the effective lower bound during a downturn, due to the low level of r*. 
Fourth, in the wake of a prolonged period of below-target inflation, there are concerns 

about the stability of longer-run inflation expectations, which could make it difficult 
for the Committee to achieve its 2 percent inflation goal on a consistent basis. This 
memo discusses how these factors change the tradeoffs that the Committee faces in 
pursuing the dual mandate within the current framework. In our discussion, we use a 
simple but illustrative empirical model of the economy. 
Let me start with r* in slide 13. Lower estimates of r* imply, other things being 
equal, lower interest rates, a more limited conventional policy space, and potentially 
worse economic outcomes. This is true even when policymakers correctly estimate 
r*. This exhibit illustrates how uncertainty about r* and proximity to the ELB 
produce asymmetric risks—which may prompt policymakers to err on the side of 
assuming a lower r*. 
In this scenario, we go back in time and assume that r* is 75 basis points lower 
than the estimated historical path starting in 2016. Private-sector actors correctly 
perceive the drop, but policymakers may not. We show optimal control simulations 
under discretion for three cases. In black, policymakers perfectly perceive the lower 
r*. In blue, policymakers perceive a higher r* than its actual value, failing to identify 
the drop. In red, policymakers perceive a lower r* than its actual value, 
overestimating the drop. 
Let’s focus first on the real interest rate, shown on the top-right panel. Compared 
with the perfect certainty case, overestimating r*, in blue, leads to a higher real 
interest rate, hence policy is tighter, leading to higher unemployment and lower 
inflation. In response to the weaker economic conditions, the nominal federal funds 
rate is kept at the ELB for a protracted period of time. This further constrains 
monetary policy and exacerbates economic weakness. 
In contrast, when policymakers perceive a lower r* than its actual value, in red, 
inflation no longer undershoots the 2 percent goal, while unemployment remains 
further below its natural rate. As a consequence, the federal funds rate has a steeper 
path. Recognizing the asymmetry in risks is particularly important when a prolonged 
period of below-target inflation could lead to longer-run inflation expectations 
drifting lower. We turn to that scenario next. 
In slide 14, we show how a flatter Phillips curve and inflation expectations that 
adjust sluggishly to policy actions pose a challenge for policymakers. The exhibit 
shows optimal control simulations for the period post-2019:Q1 without any further 
economic shocks for three different cases: in black, baseline rational expectations 
with the estimated Phillips curve, which is relatively flat; in blue, inflation 
expectations are instead adaptive, which means essentially more tied to recent 
inflation readings than to the 2 percent long-run goal; in red, inflation expectations 
are again adaptive, but the Phillips curve is steeper. 
Baseline assumptions imply a gradual normalization of inflation and 
unemployment because of the flatter Phillips curve. When instead expectations are 
adaptive, in blue, the inflation process is even more sluggish and attainment of the 

2 percent goal is more difficult. In particular, it requires a more forceful easing 
stance to keep inflation from slipping too low and avoid a self-reinforcing low 
inflation cycle in which observed and expected inflation pull each other down. As a 
result, unemployment substantially undershoots its natural rate. 
If, instead, the Phillips curve were steeper, then even under adaptive expectations, 
achieving the 2 percent inflation goal would not be as problematic, requiring less 
unemployment undershooting. The next slide summarizes the main findings of the 
memo. The first two items correspond to the previous analyses. The other three are 
discussed in detail in the memo. 
But let me highlight a few things. First, I will highlight the uncertainty about u* 
as being pervasive, making the determination of appropriate policy difficult. When, 
in addition, the Phillips curve is flatter, inference about the current level of u* is made 
even more difficult. This is because movements of the unemployment rate above and 
below its natural rate are reflected only modestly in changes in inflation. Second, in a 
downturn, the limited policy space due to the ELB combined with a flatter Phillips 
curve may require a prolonged period of near-zero interest rates. Third, despite 
arguments for easier policy near the ELB, periods of prolonged low interest rates 
could foster the buildup of financial vulnerabilities. This consideration may warrant 
moderation in the usage of low rates for long periods. But it is important to note how 
limited our understanding is of the linkage between low rates and financial instability, 
and of the effectiveness of raising interest rates to reduce the probability of financial 
instability. 
My last slide concludes with some implications of the analysis for potential 
revisions to the consensus statement. In slide 16, the statement acknowledges some 
of the tradeoffs discussed here, and it is still early in the framework review for 
specifics. However, our analysis suggests that a number of considerations that 
became important in recent times are not fully reflected in the Statement. First, it 
could recognize that policy tradeoffs may be affected by the proximity to the ELB. 
Second, it could mention risk-management considerations in the vicinity of the 
ELB—namely, asymmetric risks due to uncertainty regarding r* and u* and the 
possibility of buildup of financial imbalances during prolonged periods of low 
interest rates, which might otherwise be desirable. This concludes our prepared 
remarks. We would be happy to take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you very much. Are there any questions for Marc, Etienne, 
and Vasco? President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. So the last couple of slides have your caveat on financial stability. 
But just looking at your slide 13, “Misperceived r* Entails Asymmetric Costs,” alone—it seems 

to imply that the asymmetric costs ignore financial stability in this slide. But you address it as a 
caveat in the last two slides. 
MR. CURDIA. Yes. 
MR. ROSENGREN. If you thought that “reach for yield” behavior actually did have 
consequences, would you make this slide less certain? 
MR. CURDIA. Well, there’s definitely uncertainty associated with any of these lines that 
you see here to start with, even aside from financial instability. When you consider financial 
instability issues, on the one hand, you’re weakening the financial sector that could further 
weaken the economy down the road. On the other hand, you’re trying to prevent that buildup of 
financial instability from piling up. That is something that is very hard to do. In this model, it’s 
too simple to address that properly—that’s why we didn’t even attempt to do so. We would 
leave that for further research. 
Actually, on one hand, if you look at the recent conferences about “leaning against the 
wind” and so on, researchers still have the take that the costs of trying to lean against the wind, 
or to adjust monetary policy for financial-stability purposes are greater than just mopping up 
after financial instabilities are realized. On the other hand, there’s more and more evidence of 
this “reaching for yield,” and so there’s a lot of research effort going toward that direction to try 
to see if the assessment holds up that it’s still best to wait until something happens than to try to 
prevent it from happening. But it’s still early to give you exact simulation results on that. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Just one quick follow-up. One way to think about financial 
stability is, you want sustainable maximum unemployment and sustainable inflation, and so it 
implies not just getting there in the near term, but getting there through time. Do you think the 

current framework captures that sustainability concept appropriately? One way to think about 
financial stability is that sustainability over time. 
MR. CURDIA. Well, in the current framework, it’s feasible to capture that sustainability 
concept appropriately. There are evolving challenges that I tried to express, and the memo goes 
further—definitely, the effect that inflation expectations, for example, may be drifting down 
currently, but at some point it will be up as well. That will be a challenge for the sustainable 
part. 
Regarding unemployment, of course, the issue is that it’s often hard to measure what’s 
the end game in terms of what’s really the rate of unemployment consistent with the mandate. 
I see financial instability as being something that will interfere with the dynamics and our 
ability to achieve our dual mandate, because if, on the one hand, you’re trying to ease policy to 
recover from weak economic conditions but, at the same time, you’re compromising a financial 
sector that may, down the road, bring us back to weak economic conditions, it’s definitely a 
concern and a challenge to accomplish the dual mandate in a sustainable way. Again, it’s not 
just me, but many people feel that we have to do a whole lot more research on that. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The last comment, along with reading the slide on 
the financial stability risks and the implications for the conduct of monetary policy, is something 
that I think is very important. And I guess I’m not quite sure exactly what the intention of the 
steering group is to cover that topic in future memos. It occurred to me, when you talked about 
the interaction of financial stability and monetary policy lightly in the memo and in your 
briefing, this would interact with whether or not the Board has chosen to increase the 
countercyclical capital buffer. If presented with the possibility that maybe we had to take the 

funds rate on a different path because of financial stability risk but the countercyclical capital 
buffer hadn’t been activated, that would make me wonder about a whole host of things. And that 
interaction strikes me as an important topic. I think you’re looking for suggestions on what we 
need to be talking about through the framework, and I guess this is sort of where I would throw 
that in there. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thomas. 
MR. LAUBACH. If I can quickly weigh in here, since you raised the question to the 
steering committee. So, clearly, in the memo that Vasco is covering, we tried to get at this issue 
of financial stability considerations affecting tradeoffs that the Committee is confronting. As he 
also pointed out, there’s a great deal of uncertainty, arguably, in our understanding of possibly 
even the sign of the interest rate tool with regard to financial stability. And so we are open to 
hearing suggestions. But the key thing that we wanted to do here was simply to say: This 
tradeoff has been in the mix. The memo does give it some coverage in terms of, in particular, 
underlining what little we know about this relationship. 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay, thanks very much. If there are no further questions, before the 
go-round, I would like to turn it over to Governor Clarida for some introductory comments. 
MR. CLARIDA. Well, thank you, Chair Powell. And thank you to the staff for the 
excellent memos and especially to the steering committee for providing leadership in this 
process. As the Chair mentioned, the day has arrived when our 2019 framework review begins 
the transition from the “Fed Listens” phase to the “FOMC deliberates” phase. Of course, there 
are several more Fed Listens events scheduled in the fall, and I’m sure we will continue to 
benefit from the feedback, perspectives, and goodwill that we have gleaned from the Fed Listens 
enterprise. 

But the time has come for us as a Committee to begin to assess what we’ve learned with 
the benefit of rigorous economic analysis that will be presented in a number of staff briefings and 
memos starting today that we’ve just heard and then obviously continuing in FOMC meetings in 
the fall. As Marc stated in laying out the roadmap, for the purposes of focusing on the main 
issues, we think of the framework as really being composed of three pillars: the Statement of 
Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy; the existing toolkit that we deploy now or 
have deployed; and, in essence, a bygones-are-bygones approach in which our inflation objective 
is to reach a 2 percent rate of inflation and then keep it there. 
Now, as a practical matter, as many of you know, but just to remind us, our current 
framework shares much in common with flexible inflation-targeting strategies that many other 
central banks have adopted over the past 25 years. However, I think it is important to note, and 
one thing I’ve come to appreciate in this process, is that our mandate is much more explicit about 
the role of employment than that of most other inflation-targeting central banks. And, obviously, 
our consensus statement plays this up very explicitly by stating that when the two sides are in 
conflict, neither one takes precedence over the other. I think the case can be made that the 
balanced approach did and has served the Committee well, especially in the aftermath of the 
Global Financial Crisis when high unemployment called for an unconventional policy mix that, 
ex ante, entailed some risk of inflation. Ex post, it didn’t materialize, but, ex ante, the minutes 
and transcripts indicate that it was a concern. 
It’s also worth noting that among inflation-targeting central banks, there are different 
practices and approaches to defining the inflation target. For example, some, like us here, and 
those of Japan, Norway, and the United Kingdom define their target as a point. Some define the 
target as a range around that objective—for example, Canada, New Zealand, and Sweden. And 

at least one prominent central bank currently defines its target as a ceiling—that’s the European 
Central Bank (ECB), although that process is undergoing its own framework review. Several 
other central banks define a horizon, such as over the medium term or on average over time, over 
which the target is to be achieved. Australia and Switzerland are now in that category. 
Again, as I said, I should note that the ECB announced just last week that they are 
undergoing a rethinking of how they define their objective. They introduced the symmetric 
concept recently, and they may even go further. 
While there’s no one way to do inflation targeting, what all inflation-targeting central 
banks do have in common is, they all respect a bygones-are-bygones approach that does not 
contemplate, communicate, guide, or try to achieve a future deliberate over- or undershoot of the 
inflation target in response to past misses. And, in future FOMC meetings, we will be briefed by 
the staff on several alternatives to inflation targeting that have been proposed by respected 
academics and former and current policymakers. Lars Svensson at the Chicago conference 
provided an insightful 30,000-foot review of a number of these strategies, and the System staff 
will do a “deeper dive” on these in the fall. 
Now, as I think we appreciate, but just to remind ourselves, I think there’s a reason why 
no central bank in the world has gone down this road, because the benefits of makeup strategies 
rest heavily on households and firms believing in advance that the makeup will be delivered 
when the time comes. And, as is well known from economic research, makeup strategies in 
general are not time consistent, which simply means that if you go through a period when you’re 
missing inflation on the lower end, then at the future date when you achieve your inflation 
objective, the future policymaker—which may be a different Committee—does not have an 
incentive to redeem that past promise. 

So, obviously, because of this time inconsistency, to be successful, makeup strategies 
would have to be understood not only by the public, but also by the Committee to represent such 
a commitment. A lot of academic and research work, including some that I’ve worked on, 
essentially assumes that problem away by assuming this commitment device exists, but 
obviously that will be an important consideration for us. That’s why it’s important to note that 
no central bank today—although my friends in Sweden tell me that in 1935, the Swedes did 
price-level targeting, but I haven’t been able to translate the documents [laughter]—except, 
perhaps, Sweden in the ’30s, has attempted to do price-level targeting or a version of that. 
Now, following discussions of the strategies, we will receive a briefing later this fall on 
potential additions to our toolkit that we might consider, and the staff now plans to analyze more 
muscular variants of lower-for-longer strategies, such as threshold-based or time-based forward 
guidance. And, of course, similar policies were deployed, to some extent, by the Committee in 
the aftermath of the financial crisis. There would appear to be an important benefit of deploying 
robust forms of forward guidance in a way that expresses the will of a standing FOMC that are 
plausibly more credible than an alternative that promises that some future Committee at some 
future date would take an action. And, again, the Committee had some experience with that in 
previous years. 
The staff also plans to brief us on the potential benefits and costs of quantity-based versus 
rate-based so-called yield curve control balance sheet tools. At present, the Japanese do a 
version of yield curve control with a soft ceiling on 10-year yields, but yield curve control can be 
thought of really as a complement to forward guidance over perhaps a much narrower horizon—
say, 1 or 2 years. 

Finally, an important responsibility of the Committee as part of this review is to assess 
and execute on the best way to communicate any evolution or revolution in our framework that 
we may agree on. In this regard, as our framework review evolves this fall, we, as Committee 
members, will want to consider and think hard about what, if any, changes to our consensus 
statement may be called for. And as the staff highlighted, as it reads right now, I think there are 
at least four interrelated elements of the statement that will deserve our focus and attention as we 
work through communicating our thinking on the framework review. As the staff indicated, 
these would include how the consensus statement addresses inflation expectations; the meaning 
and interpretation of symmetry; the time dimension over which the objective is to be achieved; 
and then something that’s omitted now from the statement—which is a reference to the effective 
lower bound. 
Let me conclude by saying that, as part of the framework review, the communications 
subcommittee has been gathering input from FOMC participants and from feedback in the Fed 
Listens events on possible ways in which the SEP and some other communications might be 
improved. We have begun to discuss these at our meetings, and at some future meeting of the 
FOMC, we’ll present these ideas for possible discussion and consideration. Thank you, Chair 
Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you, Rich. And thank you for your leadership on this. 
Let’s proceed with the go-round. Vice Chair Williams, would you like to lead off? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. First of all, I thank the staff—past, 
present, and future—because not only have you already done a lot of work and are doing a lot of 
work, but we know that there are a number of memos and presentations ahead of us, as we have 
already heard. I think these memos and presentations will be really helpful to all of us in 

framing the issues, to understand what the evidence teaches us—and then really think about how 
we can best achieve our dual-mandate goals, which is really what all of this is about. 
Now, going back to the consensus statement, that’s kind of where I start and end, because 
I do think it’s been an incredibly helpful document since we first introduced it in 2012. It has 
been helpful I think both to communicate our goals externally, obviously, but also to 
communicate our framework in a way that can then be used in our FOMC statements and other 
communications. So I always think that everything hangs off the consensus statement, in terms 
of our decisionmaking and the framing of our decisions. I think it’s also helped us internally to 
have a shared understanding of what our goals are and what our basic strategy is. It has clarified 
that it’s not just about what our goals are, it’s really about how do we best achieve them. So, 
again, I think the consensus statement is really, in a way, the anchor of our policy deliberations 
and decisions, and I think a successful completion of this process over the next year will end up 
with some revisions to our consensus statement. 
I think in terms of looking back at the consensus statement and thinking about the history 
of thinking about monetary policy, like many have already said and Governor Clarida 
mentioned, it does represent, I think, a pretty good statement of the consensus about monetary 
policy as of about a decade ago. It makes no reference to the lower bound at all and makes no 
reference, obviously, to unconventional policies or any of these other issues. It really is flying at 
a very high level. 
The word “strategy” has different meanings for different people, but I would put this at 
about 100,000 feet in terms of when we talk about strategy. There is no oxygen up there, and 
there is not a lot of clarity about what the strategy really entails when reaching actual decisions. 
But, because the world has changed since 2012, I think the lessons of the past decade, which 

were nicely summarized in the memo, have taught us a lot about the world of an environment in 
which you have low r* and the proximity to the effective lower bound constraining monetary 
policy, obviously, not only in the United States, but throughout most advanced economies. So, 
given that this is a new reality, I think it is a game-changer in thinking about monetary policy 
strategy and thinking about our consensus statement. I think the memos, again, highlight the key 
factors that we should be thinking about as we go forward on this and the things that we should 
be thinking about how to address. 
So my comments are, just very briefly, I think, picking up on Governor Clarida’s 
comments. When I look at the consensus statement, I think there are three areas on which we 
really do need to be focused. And those are the areas that we need to be thinking about and I will 
be thinking about, in terms of our future discussions. 
One is what I see as a fundamental inconsistency between our symmetric inflation goal, 
as described in the left column of the statement—which I fully support—which says that we 
want to have 2 percent inflation, on average, and be symmetric around that, which I think of as 
inflation is above 2 percent about half the time and below 2 percent roughly half of the time. 
That’s a great goal. That is what we want to achieve. However, if you look at the right-hand 
column, which describes in the lower part what our actual policy strategy implementation is, it 
indicates that it’s basically a flexible inflation-targeting approach. That approach is inconsistent 
with a symmetric 2 percent inflation target in a world of very low r* and the proximity of the 
effective lower bound, because that approach will tend to lead to inflation being biased too low. 
Flexible inflation targeting means inflation, on average, will run below target because of the 
constraint posed by the effective lower bound on our ability to react to negative shocks. It also 
means inflation expectations can easily become anchored at too low a level. So I think that’s one 

area that we are going to need to think hard about—how do we make sure that the description of 
our policy framework in the consensus statement is well aligned, in practice, with our goals of a 
symmetric inflation target? 
The second issue is really “walking the talk” on anchoring inflation expectations. If you 
read this existing statement, it basically gives communication the lead role in this. I’m reading 
from the statement: “Communicating this symmetric inflation goal clearly to the public helps 
keep longer-term inflation expectations firmly anchored.” So, in 2012, words obviously are 
important. But I think what we’ve learned in the past decade is: You need to have the actions 
that support the words. We need to be delivering 2 percent inflation on average in order to 
reinforce, through the results of our actions, this anchoring of the 2 percent inflation 
expectations. So, again, it’s something that I think we need to have clearly in our policy 
framework and in our consensus statement. 
And the third is really about, I think, some clarity about how we think about policy tools, 
the implementation of the strategy, and the role of uncertainty and risks in our decisionmaking. 
Again, having the low r* and proximity to the effective lower bound, I think, is fundamentally a 
different world in thinking about risk management and thinking about using unconventional 
policy than we had before. So I would argue that instead of flying at 100,000 feet or even 60,000 
feet, it would be helpful to have this framework bring us down to maybe 30,000 feet or so—not 
into tactics, not into policy rules—but maybe greater clarity about what this means in terms of 
lower-for-longer and what that means in terms of using our tools in the future. 
The final comment I want to make is about financial stability. Having lived through this 
and listening to President Rosengren’s question, I am conscious of the fact that, clearly, this is an 
issue that we are going to need to continue to think about and address in the statement. I do 

think it’s important for us, when we discuss financial stability, to distinguish between long-run 
and short-run issues, and here I am picking up honestly on President Evans’s comments. If r* is 
really that low, close to zero, then this is not about monetary policy strategy. This is a reality of 
low interest rates. This means that any concerns about financial stability in a lower-for-longer 
world are really structural more than cyclical. 
So I think that, when we think about this discussion, we should separate those two issues. 
One is, if there are structural issues holding the real interest rates low, and those lead to perhaps 
greater fragility in the financial system, we need to think of structural policies that will mitigate 
those risks, because that’s not about raising or lowering interest rates. It’s about where interest 
rates are on average. Similarly, when we think about the cyclical decisions on monetary policy, 
how quickly do we want to bring inflation back to target or respond to shocks? We should also 
think about what other policy tools do we have that might mitigate financial stability risks? 
Sometimes I hear this discussion of lower-for-longer become conflated with just very low 
interest rates. And if that’s the reality, we should be addressing that structural reality and not 
conflating that with short-term policy decisions. I know that Vasco doesn’t want to promise new 
memos on this in the short run, but as we work on this framework project, we need to be clear 
with ourselves and with the public about what our framework is and how we’re thinking about 
these various issues. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Just a comment on the process. 
I think the process has worked quite well. I think the listening tour was quite effective, and the 
Chicago conference worked out very well. And I would say, the very thoughtful process in 
which we’re going through the set of issues over the course of these meetings between now and 

the end of the year was long overdue, for some of the reasons that were just highlighted. A lot in 
the world has changed, and this is really a great time to be doing this analysis. I’m glad we’re 
spending as much time as we are, because I think it is critically important. 
I’m just going to provide answers to the three questions posed to us in the memo, and I’ll 
just do it in the order that we were asked. The first was the advantages and disadvantages of the 
current framework. The operating framework should be designed so as to put the FOMC in the 
best position to achieve its congressionally mandated goals. Because the Federal Reserve has a 
dual mandate, with both stable inflation and maximum employment as its objectives, the FOMC 
could react more aggressively at the outset of the financial crisis than many other central banks. 
So the dual nature of our mandate has served the public very well. 
The 2012 Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, in addition to 
stating an explicit inflation target, has further cemented the importance of the dual mandate. I 
think the Committee and the public have also been well served by having a more explicit 
framework document that is voted on at each January organizational meeting. It is an important 
tool that should be referenced more not just in our public communications, but also internally 
during our policy deliberations. 
The dual mandate, along with the resulting emphasis on a balanced approach to policy in 
the 2012 Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy document, provided a 
compelling rationale for aggressively using unconventional monetary policy tools at the effective 
lower bound. It is less clear, however, that the Committee has followed a balanced approach 
since liftoff from the effective lower bound. Several factors are likely to have played a role in 
policy decisions deviating from the framework’s simple characterization of the loss function. 

This deviation could have been the result of the median SEP forecast not having been a 
good proxy for voting members’ positions or policy decisions based on risk-management 
concerns. For a variety of reasons, probing for better labor outcomes likely served the 
Committee well at the early stage of the liftoff, but it is too early to assess the merits of more 
recent deviations from the balanced approach. A lot hinges on future inflation developments and 
risks to financial stability. Regardless of how one views the deviations from the balanced 
approach, a more methodical discussion of the reasons for moving away from the current 
framework’s reaction function would be helpful, both internally and in communications with the 
public. Communications are a crucial component of the current framework. Much progress has 
been made on this front over time, but more is probably needed. 
In terms of the different uses of the tools, the second question, we utilized balance sheet 
tools and forward guidance to address a financial crisis and a very deep recession, with little 
historical experience, uncertain political support, and concerns with exit strategy. Knowing what 
we know now, it is probable that we should have continued to use the tools more aggressively to 
achieve our mandate more quickly. And, in retrospect, setting economic triggers for 
discontinuing quantitative easing might have been a more effective way of addressing tapering. 
In terms of the balance sheet, I am convinced that we can provide meaningful 
accommodation at the effective lower bound. However, as Japan and Europe have shown us, it 
is clearly no guarantee of a quick exit from the effective lower bound, and in both Japan and 
Europe, where much of the yield curve is negative still, additional stimulus is most likely 
productive if it focuses on spreads associated with more risky assets. 
In the United States, with our limitations to purchase only Treasury and agency 
securities, we could find ourselves with no additional effective tools in an extended period at the 

effective lower bound. More effectively using forward guidance and targeting rates further out 
on the yield curve seem like strategies that we should consider more seriously. For example, 
explicitly targeting rates further out the yield curve, coupled with forward guidance that 
reinforces the intentions and expected duration of such balance sheet policy, could prove 
effective. 
With regard to the third question, several changes could enhance the Statement on 
Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. First, there is no recognition of the challenge 
posed by the higher risks of hitting the effective lower bound when r* is low. Globally, this has 
been a significant problem, and we should recognize that, when setting policy, central banks 
must consider the monetary policy challenges at the effective lower bound. It may, for example, 
be a time when we target an inflation rate at the high end of the tolerable range if we switch to an 
explicit range rather than a single target. As well as adopting a strategy that makes this a 
somewhat less likely outcome, I would advocate for a more explicit acknowledgement that 
balance sheet and forward guidance are, by necessity, monetary policy tools at the effective 
lower bound. 
Second, we should deal with financial stability more explicitly. We want our dual 
mandate to be achieved over time. The past two recessions have been significantly affected by 
financial stability-related issues, resulting in a significant miss of our dual-mandate goals for 
much of the subsequent decade. Short-term achievement of the dual mandate should not be at 
the expense of financial stability concerns, which makes achieving the dual mandate in the future 
much less likely. 
Third, while the current Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategies 
emphasizes the symmetry of the 2 percent inflation target, I would explicitly adopt an acceptable 

range for inflation around 2 percent—say, between 1½ and 2½ percent. The constraint that we 
always aim to hit the 2 percent target seems appropriate if there are reasons to believe that the 
economy will hit the effective lower bound rarely and for a short time. 
If, instead, effective lower bound episodes are more likely and potentially longer lasting, 
it would be reasonable to relax the constraint mildly. In this setting, when monetary policy is 
constrained by the effective lower bound, forward guidance would be used to promise more time 
in the upper half of the range once the economy has recovered from the recession. Such a 
framework would be more effective at delivering a 2 percent inflation rate on average. In 
looking back, it is evident that such a strategy might have made a larger fraction of the 
Committee more comfortable with more accommodative policy over the past several years. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. To start, let me say I’m very supportive of the 
Committee’s undertaking this review of our policy framework. The Committee did take 
unprecedented policy actions to address the financial crisis and Great Recession, and there is 
reason to believe—based on the aging of the population, expected slowdown in population 
growth, higher demand for safe assets, and other facts—that the longer-term equilibrium real 
interest rate will remain lower than in past decades. For both these reasons, reviewing our 
framework and the tools with which we implement monetary policy to achieve our dual-mandate 
goals is timely. 
Now, if the Committee decides to change its framework—and here, in particular, I’m 
talking about changing from flexible inflation targeting to a makeup strategy—it’s going to have 
implications for the setting of monetary policy well into the future. So it’s important that our 

review be a thorough one. I appreciate the analysis that’s been done by the staff to date, but my 
biggest “ask” as we go forward is that the staff incorporate multiple models and examine 
different perspectives in its analysis, in order to ensure that any conclusions are robust. 
Before changing the framework, it would be useful if the Committee tests, through 
“tabletop” exercises or some other means, how any proposed framework would play out in 
real-time decisionmaking and across different economic scenarios and to examine how our 
decisions and communications might have changed if we had been operating under an alternative 
framework instead of the current one. My understanding is that forthcoming staff analyses of 
alternative frameworks will incorporate some robustness checks. I want to encourage the staff to 
go further, as I believe that thorough robustness testing and analysis of alternative perspectives 
are needed when the Committee is contemplating something as significant as a change in the 
framework. This will also aid our communications, as it will reassure the public that we 
considered a range of perspectives and did not succumb to groupthink in coming to our 
conclusions. 
Many of the alternative frameworks that have been proposed have theoretical appeal, but 
none of them are without implementation challenges. For example, many of them work well in 
models featuring perfect credibility and commitment and in which the public understands the 
framework and believes future Committees will follow through, and in which the Committee 
actually does follow through. Even under the current framework, commitment has been a 
challenge for the Committee. Under the alternative frameworks that entail inflation makeup 
strategies, issues of credibility and commitment loom even larger. One needs to ask whether it’s 
credible for policymakers to commit to keep interest rates low to make up for past shortfalls of 

inflation from target even when demand is growing strongly or to act to bring inflation down in 
the face of a supply shock by tightening policy even in the face of weak demand. 
The framework analysis being done to evaluate the benefits and costs of each framework 
needs to be explicit about the assumptions underlying each model used in the analysis. We need 
to understand the implications of different assumptions about how the public and market 
participants form expectations, levels of credibility of policymakers, and limits on the ability or 
desire of policymakers to commit to future policy action. We need to know what happens if the 
Phillips curve, which is flat now, steepens more abruptly than assumed even if that’s not the 
modal view. In addition, we need to acknowledge head-on that monetary policy decisions are 
necessarily made in an environment of uncertainty. Our data are revised. There are 
measurement issues involved, and distinguishing demand shocks and supply shocks is difficult. 
As the memos point out, there’s uncertainty about some of the underlying structural 
aspects of the economy, including the equilibrium interest rate and potential output growth. 
There’s model uncertainty, including regarding the transmission mechanism of monetary policy 
and inflation, employment, and growth. These uncertainties suggest that we cannot limit the 
framework analysis to one model of the economy. 
The analysis also has to take seriously issues that are rarely incorporated into our models. 
The political economy issues surrounding balance sheet policies are one example of this type of 
an issue. Our narrow set of countercyclical tools for fostering financial stability is another 
example. 
Indeed, our workhorse models are quite limited when it comes to studying the nexus 
between monetary policy and financial stability. So we need to seek out other models, as the 

interplay between macro stability and financial stability is likely to become more important in a 
low interest rate environment. 
In terms of the questions: The memo asked whether the current framework of flexible 
inflation targeting constrained the Committee from taking appropriate action to address the Great 
Recession, which might suggest a change in framework is needed, or whether the Committee 
could have taken more effective actions even under the current framework, which might suggest 
no change is needed. This may be a good heuristic device, but I’m not sure I agree with the 
memo’s conclusions. Hindsight can be 20–20, while decisionmaking in real time is difficult, 
partly because of the uncertainties that I mentioned. 
The staff memo, to my mind, too easily dismisses the political-economy concerns 
expressed by some Committee members at the time about balance sheet policies and interest on 
reserves. Indeed, some outsiders—that is, not those on the Committee—continue to call for 
eliminating interest on reserves, viewing it as a transfer to banks. Now, I wasn’t on the 
Committee then, but as I recall, some Committee members were concerned about potential 
congressional backlash were the extraordinary tools pushed too far—which would have 
undermined the use of these tools in the future. 
I’m also not sure about the staff’s assessment that forward guidance didn’t create much 
confusion. The form of the Committee’s forward guidance underwent several revisions, from 
qualitative guidance to calendar dates to economic thresholds and then to a combination of 
calendar-based and state-based guidance. As I recall, explaining the changes was not that easy 
as the Committee struggled with commitment. 
Finally, even if some of the risks associated with balance sheet policies and forward 
guidance didn’t become reality, this does not mean that the Committee was wrong to take such 

risks seriously at the time. It could be that being less aggressive with these tools actually 
lowered some of the costs and risks of using them. Risk-based policymaking means considering 
risks that won’t necessarily be realized and the effect of actions on those risks. 
I do think that the current framework of flexible inflation targeting, which includes an 
explicit 2 percent symmetric inflation objective and a balanced approach to achieving our dual-
mandate goals, has served the Committee well in effectively promoting our policy goals. The 
Great Recession was very deep, and the Committee needed to use extraordinary policy tools. 
Now the U.S. economy has recovered to a sustained period of growth, strong labor markets, and 
inflation near our target, and we have normalized our policy settings. I believe being explicit 
about the Committee’s inflation target helped anchor long-run inflation expectations as the 
economy emerged from a period of economic weakness and substantial policy accommodation. 
Now, that’s not to say there aren’t things that can make the framework more effective. In 
view of the imperfect precision with which monetary policy can control inflation and secure our 
dual mandate, I think it’s worth considering whether we would be better off defining the inflation 
goal in terms of a range centered on 2 percent rather than a point target. It’s difficult to believe 
that the economic effect of 1.8 percent inflation would be significantly different from 2 percent 
inflation or that the public sees the difference as material, particularly in light of inflation 
perceptions that are actually a good bit higher as suggested in surveys and our Fed Listens 
sessions. The point target, rather than a range, may be complicating our communications and 
policy decisions. 
Another thing to consider is the level of the inflation target. I understand that this has 
been taken off the table in the framework discussion. For several reasons, it seems hard to make 
a case to exclude an evaluation of the costs and benefits of raising the inflation target even if, in 

the end, we land on 2 percent. These reasons include the memos’ emphasis on the challenges 
posed by the effective lower bound in an environment of low longer-run equilibrium real interest 
rates, the conclusions reached by economists outside the Fed and the fact that the Bank of 
Canada has included such an analysis in its regular framework review. 
Now, regardless of the framework the Committee ultimately decides on, the public’s 
expectations about future monetary policy are an important part of the transmission mechanism 
of policy to the economy, so effective communication will be an essential component of the 
framework. At present, the Committee’s Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy 
document does a credible job of discussing the goals but, to my mind, does not offer much in the 
way of strategy. And I think there are some opportunities of better clarifying our strategy. 
First, we could take a more systematic approach to our policy decisions and how we 
communicate those decisions. This includes our strategy for our policy interest rates, our 
balance sheet policies, and our forward guidance, as well as the potential use of negative interest 
rates, which have been used in the euro area and are another way of addressing the challenge of 
the lower bound. If we were more systematic in how we go about using each of these tools and 
under what circumstances, our communications will be clearer, and we could better align the 
public’s policy expectations with policy decisions. 
With regard to the nontraditional tools, we could clarify under what conditions we would 
start and stop using these tools and the mix of assets we might purchase. This could vary with 
the nature of the shocks hitting the economy. 
Increasing the public’s understanding of how we conduct monetary policy could help 
insulate monetary policy from short-run political considerations and offer more policy continuity 
over time as Committee membership changes. The communications challenge for the 

Committee is to give the public a good sense of how monetary policy is likely to respond 
conditional on how the economy evolves without implying that policy is pre-committed to a 
particular path regardless of how the economy evolves. 
Second, we could clarify the Committee’s views on how to balance macroeconomic and 
financial stability concerns, the use of tools to achieve each, and the governance framework for 
making these decisions. With the financial stability concerns that arise with long periods of low 
interest rates, this would be a good time for the Committee to begin formal discussions about the 
nexus between monetary policy and financial stability needed to reach a consensus. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS.
2 Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is a very good review process, and the 
comments so far clearly reflect that. As I prepared these remarks, I took note of the fact that the 
composition of the FOMC has changed quite a lot since we adopted our Statement on Longer-
Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy in 2012. So, since I have become one of the old guard 
here, I thought I would stay in that form and talk a little bit about how we got where we are 
today. And, of course, it’s in my nature anyway. [Laughter] 
But more importantly, we’re all familiar with the prudent financial investor’s lament. It 
wasn’t that long ago that financial markets were in turmoil due to the Global Financial Crisis, 
and today markets are behaving almost as if the crisis never occurred. Have investors forgotten 
important lessons? Monetary policy should not make such a mistake. There are a lot of lessons 
of the 2008–15 period that I want to stress in these strategy discussions, but the main one that I 
learned is that once the effective lower bound enters the realm of meaningful possibility, the 
 
2 The materials used by Mr. Evans are appended to this transcript (appendix 2). 

value of ambitious, aggressive, do-what-it-takes policymaking goes way up. More timid, 
conservative policymaking approaches will not get the job done. 
I want to thank the staff for these informative and thought-provoking memos. Many 
interesting perspectives were offered. Regarding the historical experience discussed in the first 
memo, I found it particularly noteworthy that the ¾ percent annual pace of decline in the 
unemployment rate from 2009 to 2015, roughly, was typical of other recoveries. I found this 
noteworthy, because the FOMC needed to expand its balance sheet to $4.5 trillion and use 
calendar-based and threshold forward guidance in order to achieve this normal outcome. 
Fighting the effective lower bound was far from a business-as-usual experience, and, as 
President Mester’s comments mentioned, it was different, and explaining that to everybody was 
a challenge, no doubt about it. 
Indeed, we embarked on open-ended quantitative easing and threshold forward guidance 
in the fall of 2012 largely because of the poor expected performance of the labor market. The 
unemployment rate was 8.3 percent then, and unless you thought the natural rate of 
unemployment was above 7 percent, the outlook was extremely unsatisfying. 
The Bernanke Fed’s version of do-what-it-takes monetary policy was crucial in 
generating the typical labor market improvements that we observed. But, as aggressive as 
monetary policy was in 2012, maybe our earlier efforts were too timid and too conservative. 
Maybe we should have done more back in 2010 when the unemployment rate was still near 10 
percent, and it was pretty clear that the recovery was going to be challenging. Instead of simply 
hoping for a much better-than-average historical recovery, maybe we should have stimulated the 
economy not with the aim of achieving a typical pace of decline in the unemployment rate, but 

with a goal of closing the overall unemployment rate gap within a more normal historical time 
frame—less than the six years it actually took. 
Clearly, aggressive actions in the fall of 2012 were consistent with our January 2012 
framework, as we took those actions under the framework. And, today, I think our current 
framework has the potential to serve us as well, as long as we keep a steely and explicit focus on 
attaining our inflation and maximum-employment objectives over an appropriate period. This is 
outcome-based monetary policy, and I think the reference to an appropriate time frame is 
extremely important and deserves much more discussion than we’ve had in the past. I agree with 
the comments that Vice Chair Williams and Governor Clarida made earlier on that point. Do-
what-it-takes, outcome-based policy should include an expected time-to-improvement. 
The second memo stressed many challenges that the FOMC faces now and will likely 
face in the future. The economic environment is the main culprit, in my opinion. Trend growth 
of around 1¾ percent seems justified on the basis of low labor input growth and moderate 
productivity trends. This, together with a global environment that is similar or worse, leads to 
low equilibrium policy rates. In this setting, the likelihood of revisiting the effective lower 
bound is too high for comfort. Even a modest downward shock could lead to a prolonged stay at 
the effective lower bound, with unsatisfactory employment and inflation outcomes. 
A lot of work has been done indicating that in this economic environment, optimal 
outcome-based responses might benefit from alternative monetary policy approaches, like 
average inflation targeting or temporary price-level targeting. But our discussion of those 
policies is coming in September. Today’s meeting is focused on working through the strengths 
and weaknesses of the current framework. I think our current framework can take us far. But for 
it to do so, we need to establish an appropriate working definition of our symmetric inflation 

objective. This is perhaps the key issue that needs to be addressed in ensuring effective 
monetary policy under the current framework. 
First, I think our Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategies 
definitely allows the FOMC to seek, affirmatively, an overshoot of our 2 percent inflation 
objective. I disagree with the roadmap memo’s characterization that it does not. Recall that, in 
December 2012, the FOMC adopted a threshold forward-guidance policy that indicated that the 
federal funds rate would not be increased at least as long as the unemployment rate was above 
6½ percent and inflation stayed below 2½ percent. So, in the pursuit of lower unemployment, 
the FOMC was willing to generate inflation above 2 percent. 
Second, as the roadmap memo highlights, the sentence introduced into the Statement of 
Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy in January 2016 on symmetry can be a 
powerful tool. At the time of those discussions, I strongly believed that the FOMC’s approach to 
letting inflation gradually rise to 2 percent was too timid. Indeed, our efforts likely were being 
hampered by entrenched public beliefs that the Committee would tighten policy to ensure that 
inflation did not rise above 2 percent. 
I thought that the Committee’s main objective in adopting the “symmetric” language was 
to indicate more clearly that 2 percent was not a ceiling—2 percent is a target. That being the 
case, our framework needed to allow explicitly for periods of inflation above 2 percent. As Vice 
Chair Williams mentioned, 50 percent of the time inflation is above 2 percent. and 50 percent of 
the time it is below 2 percent is one way you might think about that. I do. 
I felt that communicating this understanding could bolster inflation expectations and thus 
remove an important drag on achieving our objective and generate a consensus in favor of 
greater specificity on policy actions, especially agreement among Committee members on how 

to achieve symmetry. That was simply too difficult a task for the challenges and disagreements 
over policy at that time. We couldn’t get there. Nevertheless, the affirmation that our inflation 
objective is symmetric did indicate that the Committee would view an extended period of 
inflation below 2 percent as unacceptable and would act to rectify the situation. 
What should those actions look like? There’s a handout that was distributed. In the 
handout, I generated of a very simple chart for you. Consider one of the first scenarios in the 
second memo in which the constraints associated with the effective lower bound can cause a 
prolonged undershooting of inflation. I distributed a very simple chart to visualize a couple of 
possible policy responses. The green path labeled “π
A” expects inflation to rise deliberately but 
gradually to 2 percent. I think this approach has challenges. As the staff memos note, the 
economic and risk environment here makes downward inflation shocks more costly than upward 
ones. Furthermore, this asymmetry can generate lower inflation expectations by the public. In 
other words, the effective lower bound, together with a reluctance to use policy aggressively, 
would reinforce low inflation outcomes. 
The path labeled “π
B” envisions more aggressive policy actions that lead to a moderate 
overshoot and quicker attainment of the inflation objective. And if downward inflation shocks 
are realized along this path, 2 percent may still be achieved sooner than in the πA path. 
As I contemplate the most appropriate conduct of monetary policy actions when risks in 
the effective lower bound loom large, I think affirmative overshooting policies are in line with 
the existing framework to avoid persistent underruns. Overly conservative and timid approaches 
risk substantial periods of undershooting. Of course, communicating more strongly that the 
expected conduct of monetary policy will support affirmative overshooting action is still 
something that we have to discuss. 

Finally, let me briefly touch on another important issue for the framework discussions. 
Our public Fed Listens reviews have reinforced, for me, the point that the FOMC needs to clarify 
how we think about maximum employment. Many briefings, research papers, and the second 
memo highlight the flatness of the Phillips curve in the short run. I think we need to consider 
seriously how we would analyze, project, and take policy actions to guide inflation to target in a 
world in which there is no Phillips curve. Not just flat—but a world in which it’s really not 
relevant in any way. 
If the entire inflation proposition comes down to inflation expectations alone, then we 
have to think about what that means. What would be the inflation-generating process? Should 
we resurrect old theories and monetary models to help guide that? Would they be relevant? 
Should we appeal to the fiscal theory of the price level? Maybe that would be what determines 
inflation. 
We need to have a better idea of that in case the Phillips curve just doesn’t help us much 
in the future. Now, this is too much for today, but this is a topic that deserves serious 
consideration for our review. If the Phillips curve is, indeed, flat, then we need to clarify what 
we think the cost of 3 percent unemployment is. If it is not a harbinger of future inflation, what 
is the cost? I thought the Fed Listens panel that President Rosengren moderated was particularly 
interesting on this topic. Maurice Jones of the Local Initiative Support Cooperation, or LISC, 
stressed that employment is the best tool for fighting poverty and noted the many economic 
challenges faced by low-income communities even when the unemployment rate is 3.6 percent. 
At the conference, Eric mentioned the risk that a substantial undershooting of the natural 
rate of unemployment could be followed by a very difficult recession with high unemployment 
as national labor markets recalibrate. I heard Jones challenge that view and respond that, in the 

communities in which he’s working, it always feels like a recession. It has only been recently, 
with the unemployment rate at historic lows, that meaningful opportunities have penetrated these 
communities. Sustaining low unemployment offers the hope of stronger attachments to the 
workforce and the associated and important structural benefits. 
All of this makes me think that we need a lot more work and discussion on the monetary 
policy cost of moving the economy beyond some measure of maximum employment. If it’s not 
a harbinger of future inflation, what is it, in terms of the cost? If it is a harbinger of future 
inflation, okay—we understand that that has some risk. 
In sum, I look forward to further discussions about alternative strategies that might help 
the FOMC achieve the appropriate degree of accommodation. In the face of the effective lower 
bound and other challenges, I know that we will better understand our strategic policy options 
following this review. I think we’re going to have challenges, but I expect that the FOMC will 
be well served if we focus first on clarifying the meaning of our dual-mandate goals of 2 percent 
symmetric inflation and maximum employment and second on being more explicit about how 
the conduct of monetary policy will support the attainment of these outcomes. Our current 
Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy is a powerful tool, and enhancing 
it can take us a long way. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thanks very much to the staff for the 
memos and the ongoing work in this area. I think it’s a very good summary of all the issues. 
These are difficult issues and difficult to organize. So I think it’s really been excellent work. 
My general comment would be that I think this is a very welcome framework review that 
we are undertaking. I think it’s a great time to be doing this, during 2019. I think it’s a best 

practice in central banking. So I think all of this is excellent, and I welcome it. Chair Powell 
even said that it was “exciting.” That’s not a word I hear a lot in macroeconomics. [Laughter] 
Even though it’s a best practice, I don’t think it’s easy to do a framework review. It drags up all 
kinds of deep issues in monetary economics and macroeconomics, and the art here is going to be 
deciding what can we actually do to tweak our framework in the next six months, as opposed to 
trying to resolve all of these deep issues. 
I’m willing to accept, for the purposes of this discussion, the definition of the current 
framework as a version of flexible inflation targeting consisting of the Statement of Longer-Run 
Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy—or the “SLRGMPS,” if you like the acronym—a set of 
tools to include interest rate policy, forward guidance, balance sheet policy, and possibly 
negative interest rate policy or yield curve control or other types of policies that have been used 
by other central banks, and, finally, a bygones-are-bygones approach to inflation targeting. And 
I think that is an accurate short summary of what our framework actually is, and I’m willing to 
work with that. 
I see the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy as the only 
existing communications channel for announcing a framework change for this Committee, but I 
would stress to the group that I think this vehicle is extremely limited, as its ability to handle 
difficult concepts is very narrow. The idea that you can artfully incorporate the subtleties of the 
macroeconomic debates into this four-paragraph statement, I think, is a bit of a heroic 
assumption. The r* debates and u* debates and others are probably best left for the supporting 
research literature. 
So I guess one thing I’d like to get the Committee to think about is, are there ways that 
we can convey subtleties about our flexible inflation-targeting framework other than through the 

statement itself? A white paper would be one idea, or some sort of summary, or—we already do 
conferences, conference volumes, things like that that can do justice to these very difficult issues, 
as opposed to a word or a phrase that might be put into the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and 
Monetary Policy Strategy. The Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy is 
quasi-constitutional in nature and needs widespread support for the Committee to be effective. It 
has often been called the consensus statement. I believe Chair Yellen often used the phrase 
“consensus statement.” 
I agree with Vice Chair Williams that it’s a 100,000-foot document, but there’s a reason 
it’s 100,000 feet. It’s because, when you start getting to lower levels, there starts to be more 
disagreement about what should actually be in there and what can be agreed to by the entire 
Committee. 
When we first put this together in 2011 and adopted it in 2012, it was very important to 
have what I would call “big tent” language. I would say the phrase “balanced approach” was the 
best example of the big tent language, because the balanced approach phrase could be interpreted 
a lot of different ways by a lot of different people around the table. In summary, I would say that 
the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy was originally meant as a 
statement of the United States adopting an inflation target, and it was a goals statement and not a 
tactics statement. I’m hearing some of the discussion around here trying to push toward more of 
a tactics statement. I think it is going to be very difficult to get consensus supporting that. 
These considerations seem to rule out using the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and 
Monetary Policy Strategy to discuss which tools should be used under various circumstances. I 
think the best that we can say about the tools is that there are many, that they may be at least 

marginally effective, and that we reserve the right to use them if we think it will help us achieve 
our goals in various situations that the country might face in the future. 
Similarly, financial stability concerns are very legitimate, but we do not have very good 
models that describe the connections between financial stability and monetary policy. I think it 
is going to be hard to get a clear statement of what our policy is with regard to the interaction of 
monetary policy and financial stability into this Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary 
Policy Strategy. 
If we can make any constructive changes to the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and 
Monetary Policy Strategy, it may be in the area of the nature of the symmetry of the inflation 
target, which is really the only area in which we’ve tried to make revisions since we adopted it in 
2012. And I agree with some of the comments of Vice Chair Williams in this regard. The 
current symmetry language looks backward instead of forward and expresses concern only about 
past misses of the inflation target—but does not make a call to action if there have been past 
misses of the inflation target. We may be able to revise the language to beef up our commitment 
to actually achieving the inflation target on average over time. 
Governor Clarida’s opening comments stressed that such strategies are time 
inconsistent—that is, that future Committees may not honor commitments made by past 
Committees. I would temper that thought a little bit. I think that we could beef up our 
commitment and make it better than what it is today. It may not be totally perfect the way it is in 
macroeconomic models, but it could be better than it is today. 
Many models and analyses suggest that such a commitment would materially improve 
macroeconomic outcomes and so help the Committee better achieve its goals. Strengthening 
commitment might allow the Committee to take a step in the direction of price-level targeting or 

its close cousin, nominal GDP targeting, which may help us avoid the effective lower bound in 
the future. 
Question number one in the materials for this discussion asks if flexible inflation 
targeting has inhibited the Committee from achieving its goals since being officially adopted in 
January of 2012. The central lesson in monetary economics and central banking over the past 
20 years is this: Not only is the effective lower bound a constraint on monetary policy, but it is 
also, potentially, an absorbing steady state from which an economy may not escape in any 
reasonable amount of time. That is the experience of the Bank of Japan over the past 25 years, 
and something similar may be unfolding in Europe today. Many smaller economies also seem to 
be in this situation. 
This was pointed out in the literature by Benhabib, Schmitt-Grohé, and Uribe in 2001 in 
their famous “Perils of Taylor Rules” paper. The memos do acknowledge the current proximity 
to the effective lower bound without acknowledging the potential for the current state to become 
the steady state. The memos understand it as an unmooring of inflation expectations to the 
downside. I would just explain this as, if inflation expectations become unmoored to the 
downside, there is a steady state there, which means that the economy can actually get stuck at a 
situation of zero inflation or possibly negative inflation like Japan has, whereas, if inflation 
expectations get unmoored to the high side, there is no steady state there. So what you see is 
high and variable inflation in that situation, as we’ve seen around the world—for instance, in 
Turkey or elsewhere today or certainly in developed economies during the 1970s. 
So there is a difference between having unmoored expectations to the upside and to the 
downside but, in either case, there will certainly be unsatisfactory outcomes for the Committee. 

The danger for us is on the low side—you may not be able to find your way back to the inflation 
target once the inflation expectations become unmoored to the downside. 
The best way to avoid this outcome in the United States—and we’re still in a great 
position to avoid the Japanese outcome or the European outcome—is by rigorously maintaining 
the credibility of the Committee’s 2 percent inflation target. And in this, I very much agree with 
the comments of President Evans and Vice Chair Williams. One way to do this may be to take a 
step toward price-level targeting in the 2020 revision to the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and 
Monetary Policy Strategy. 
I have a brief comment on ranges, as opposed to a target for inflation. I am concerned 
about drifting toward a target range for inflation in the current situation. I think that if we name 
a target range instead of having a point target for inflation, it may weaken our commitment to a 2 
percent inflation objective. If we went to a range, I think the message would be that 1.5 percent 
inflation is okay. The Committee is satisfied with that. We don’t need to take action to change 
that. But my discussion here is suggesting that that’s exactly the thing we want to change. We 
want to move toward 2 percent inflation faster or even move above 2 percent inflation, as 
President Evans was talking about just a moment ago. So I think it’s the wrong moment to think 
about going to a comfort zone for monetary policy, and for those newer members of the 
Committee, I might point you to an older speech by a former member, Rick Mishkin: “Comfort 
Zones, Shmumfort Zones.” [Laughter] 
Also, as I understand it, communications will be discussed at a later meeting. I have 
strong views on this, and I’ll just make a few comments here. I do think we need to reform the 
Summary of Economic Projections. In my opinion, we essentially have two policy statements, 
one of which is coordinated carefully at the meeting here and one of which is uncoordinated, and 

sometimes these two policy statements are in conflict. This is creating ongoing problems for the 
Committee at various junctures. 
Also, the SEP is based on a calendar year—which can box the Committee in during the 
second half of the year—something we’re going to face very shortly here at upcoming meetings. 
I think we need more urgency on this challenge for the Committee. We’re going to have to fish 
or cut bait on this and make a decision. We need to straighten this out soon. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Like others, I would like to give my praise for the 
process, the framework review, the Fed Listens events, the steering committee, and the memos. I 
really think this is what makes us strong, and these deliberations or discussions are very helpful 
in thinking through these issues. And, since I’m new to the Committee, I’m going to bookend 
President Evans, and, instead of summarizing lived history, I’m going to summarize sort of 
studied history and where that makes me think about the path forward. 
By now, the experiences here, in Japan, in Europe, and elsewhere clearly demonstrate 
that the effective lower bound is a significant constraint on monetary policy in our current policy 
framework. There has been a secular decline in r*, for the reasons that President Mester 
mentioned, so the effective lower bound is a constraint that is much more likely to bind in the 
future, hindering our ability to provide the appropriate level of accommodation to offset negative 
shocks to the economy. 
I was looking back—and people have mentioned this—for example, we lowered the 
federal funds rate 5½ percentage points, on average, during the nine recessions since the mid-
1950s, and clearly we no longer have this amount of policy space should an average recession 

occur. And so the question that that leaves me with is, can unconventional policies compensate 
for the shortfalls in our conventional policy tools at the effective lower bound in a normal 
circumstance, not one that’s associated with a severe financial shock, just a normal, average 
encounter with the effective lower bound? 
Work throughout the System and the experience of other central banks convinced me that 
forward guidance and balance sheet policies were effective at providing some necessary stimulus 
during the financial crisis and its aftermath. And, on balance, the evidence shows that these 
policies lowered long-term interest rates, depreciated the U.S. dollar, and, overall, led to more 
more-accommodative financial conditions. These more accommodative financial conditions, in 
turn, helped support growth and inflation, although the exact magnitudes of those effects are still 
being debated. 
But still, these alternative policies are not a panacea, and I start by considering asset 
purchases. My reading of the literature is that there is still quite a lot of disagreement about their 
effectiveness—more so, in fact, than was portrayed in the memo, because the memo was focused 
on the first episode of quantitative easing. As we continue our discussions, it will be very 
important to keep the diversity of the views in mind about just how effective quantitative easing 
is. It is just something that’s true—that if you talk to central bankers, quantitative easing looks 
very effective. If you talk to financial economists in the academic sphere, they have a much 
more pessimistic or skeptical view of quantitative easing. I think those are important things for 
us to consider or think about, as President Mester noted, with robustness checks. 
In addition, across studies, the effects of quantitative easing appear more modest during 
later rounds of asset purchases. This is a topic that we have yet to take up. So an understanding 
of what makes asset purchases effective will likely be quite relevant in the future when 

encounters with the effective lower bound come without the significant financial market 
dysfunctions we observed in the previous crisis. And we will need a toolkit that works well in 
both situations: the dire and the less dire. 
Now, in terms of forward guidance, our experience before, during, and following the 
financial crisis suggested it is useful in a wide range of circumstances. As a result, providing 
additional forward guidance would be the first tool that I would go to in the vicinity of the 
effective lower bound before contemplating asset purchases. But, more importantly, 
communications about future policy depend crucially on our credibility. And, here, certain types 
of guidance are likely better than others. 
I was struck by President Mester’s and President Evans’ review of what was going on 
during the previous Committee deliberations. It was really learning in real time using a variety 
of things. But one way to think about that is, we’ve now experienced what worked better, time-
based, state-based, et cetera. And we can basically try to surface some best practices and have 
them at the ready for an average encounter with the effective lower bound. 
When I looked over the information, the thing that came through was that state-based 
guidance was much easier to communicate—it provided clarity, enhanced transparency, 
visibility, and accountability. But we ended up acknowledging that there’s only so much 
information we can regularly put into our policy statements. We will naturally then be leaning 
more and becoming more dependent on our communications that surround those statements. So 
that would be the Chair’s press conference and our own speeches and interviews that 
communicate the path of policy. 
And here—I wasn’t going to do it, but, since President Bullard brought it up—despite its 
flaws, I believe that the SEP has proven to be a useful component of that communication. I’m 

glad we’re going to undertake a review of it, but I want to just highlight a few things that, to me, 
came through. The SEP has been effective at conveying our perceptions, or the Committee’s 
perceptions when I wasn’t on it, of a decline in r* over the years. The SEP was the main vehicle 
for really coalescing around the view that all of the Committee members saw a decline in r*, 
because the range of reported values of r* was coming down as well as the median. This was 
particularly valuable early on to guide markets and explain the policy stance as they were trying 
to figure out—is the stance being driven by the reaction function or is it being driven by the 
fundamental variables? It also has provided useful information about the evolution of growth, 
potential growth, and inflation forecasts, giving market participants more context to interpret the 
outlook for interest rates—again, allowing them to understand the reaction function versus the 
forecasts of fundamental variables. 
So, overall, forward guidance and balance sheet policies remain incomplete substitutes. 
Let me start over there. These are both important tools. They should be in the toolkit. We’ve 
seen them be used effectively. But they are incomplete substitutes—at least my reading of the 
evidence suggests—for the main policy tool we have at the effective lower bound. And in this 
context, the review of our policy framework is imperative, and I’m looking forward to the 
analysis and discussions of alternative policies and strategies, including makeup strategies. 
Makeup strategies are no magic bullets and have costs and concerns attached to them; 
nonetheless they might help guide market expectations during effective lower bound episodes in 
a more systematic manner, particularly if we are able to establish the credibility of our policies in 
normal times. 
Let me say a few last things. Although it is still early—for me, anyway—to weigh in on 
specific changes to the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy statement, 

I do really see a benefit in noting that we have effective lower bound risk, and that’s a risk the 
Committee will be attempting to balance. I also think there is scope to discuss the uncertainty 
about r* and just the “star” variables in general. We take that up on u* quite well. But these are 
all the variables we use to calibrate policy, and being clear to the public that these are not 
“Truth” with a capital T and that there’s some uncertainty about their actual values, especially in 
the coming years, will be important. 
I want to concur with Vice Chair Williams that matching the goals that we state on one 
side of the statement to the strategies that we put forth, without getting to tactics—really, just 
getting from 100,000 feet to 30,000 feet, I think—will be incredibly important. 
And given that President Evans brought it up, one of the things that will be increasingly 
important for us to communicate is, how do we decide what full employment is if we don’t have 
it tethered to inflation? I think one of the big lessons out in the Fed Listens tours has been—for 
me, anyway—that people are very aware that we don’t have runaway wage inflation or price 
inflation, and that we still talk about the relationship as if it’s holding or binding us. So we 
might need another way to answer the question of how do you define full employment—is it 
allocative efficiency? Are you worried about other components maybe pulling people out of 
school or housing prices going up, and those equilibriums aren’t correct? Those are all questions 
we’ll have to grapple with if we’re going to effectively communicate about our policy stance. 
Finally, I want to just say—well, I have said that it’s a best practice to do this periodic 
review, and I really applaud this. I think it’s critical. I also think it’s important for us to 
acknowledge that our current approach to policy helped us navigate through these very rough 
waters of the financial crisis and subsequent to it. And there I want to underscore that the 
anchoring of inflation expectations around 2 percent, which the Federal Reserve had worked for 

two decades to ensure, was really part of the reason we had the scope to do the exceptional 
policy accommodation that allowed us to do the best for our dual-mandate goals. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thanks for this thoughtful introduction to what I know will be an 
important process. To the first two questions, I believe our existing tools and framework have 
served us well. This seems especially true when you contrast our recovery with those of other 
countries. Unlike most of them, we’re close, within decimal points, to both parts of our dual 
mandate. The important constraints we’ve faced have been political—fiscal tightening in the 
early part of the decade, trade policy uncertainty more recently, and perceived limits on the size 
of our balance sheet. 
For sure, we’re closer to the effective lower bound, meaning we have less ammunition, if 
you will. I don’t treat this as a shortcoming in our framework but just as a real descriptor of our 
economy these days. And in contrast, our regulatory regime should help maintain a healthier 
banking system and stronger household balance sheets, suggesting that there should be less need 
to use extra-normal measures at the effective lower bound. And new tools like forward guidance 
and quantitative easing are now understood and hopefully these tools will be more credible and 
can be used more forcefully. 
We’ll get to the topic of makeup strategies in September, but I would love to urge us to 
broaden our research, to test strategies that actually try not to do too much. For example, it’s not 
at all clear we should be the only game in town, and this review gives us the perfect opportunity 
to raise, and perhaps make progress on building conviction on, the need to use fiscal levers and 
to address the structural barriers raised in the second memo. 

I also worry that strategies that increase our time at the effective lower bound run the risk 
of stabilizing lower inflation expectations, rather than returning them to our target. That’s not 
inconsistent with the experience of Europe and Japan. 
Our job and our tools are imprecise. To the third question, as I read the current Statement 
on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, I wonder if we shouldn’t acknowledge this 
imprecision recognizing the good points that President Bullard made on timing. In particular, I’d 
suggest, like Presidents Rosengren and Mester, adopting a range for the inflation target like 
Canada’s done, explicitly using, as they do, multiple supporting core inflation metrics, not just 
one, and nuancing our tone. As long as the Phillips curve remains flat, we will actually likely 
experience persistent small deviations from our inflation objective. So perhaps we shouldn’t call 
out concern with small deviations as we currently do. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d also like to thank the staff, and I look 
forward to seeing what comes next. So thank you. I just want to add a few comments to what’s 
already been discussed. A lot of what I wanted to say has already been discussed. 
But first, with respect to the questions, I think questions one and three are related. So I’m 
going to comment on them in tandem. For the most part, I think the framework has worked well 
in that it has provided the public with a clear understanding of the Committee’s objectives, 
enhanced our credibility, and made the policy process more efficient. But, as others have said, in 
light of the current low interest rate environment and the associated asymmetries that 
environment engenders, I believe that the “balanced approach” language is not useful. Because 
of the proximity to the lower bound, we are unlikely to hit our 2 percent inflation target, on 
average, if we do not commit to running inflation above 2 percent when we are away from the 

effective lower bound. On average, inflation is likely to be at less than 2 percent, because 
inflation will likely run below target when we are close to the effective lower bound event. 
While perhaps not resulting in quantitatively large departures from a 2 percent average, I 
see no benefit to engraining inflation expectations lower than 2 percent. So it may be worth 
communicating that the Committee is willing to tolerate, as others have said, inflation slightly 
above its target when away from the effective lower bound instead of using the balanced 
approach language. 
In a low interest rate world, the balanced approach could contribute to inflation 
persistently running below our 2 percent objective. So approaches such as average inflation 
targeting and other makeup strategies would maybe help achieve our inflation objective. But I 
am concerned that these approaches attempt to make a credible commitment that a future 
Committee will act in accordance with this policy, a commitment that I believe could be hard to 
make credible. However, I am open to considering such policies if we could credibly deal with 
the credibility problem. [Laughter] 
But I think that is, for me, the question for the next round of discussion. In some ways, to 
me, it doesn’t matter whether it’s average inflation targeting or price-level targeting. The real 
question is, can we come up with some mechanism that actually makes whatever we say we’re 
going to do credible? So maybe just stating our willingness to run inflation above target when 
away from the effective lower bound would be enough, but I don’t know that. I think that, for 
me, is the conversation I’d like to hear in the next round of this. 
With respect to the second question and taking the perspective of one who was on the 
sidelines when the recession occurred and watched our policy evolve in an extremely 
challenging environment, I think, on the whole, the Committee did an admirable job in avoiding 

economic outcomes that could have been a whole lot worse. My take from the memo dealing 
with the asymmetric outcomes arising from our proximity to the effective lower bound is, as 
others have said, that we may wish to be even more aggressive in the future when we are at the 
effective lower bound. In particular, we may wish to place more weight on the probability that 
“star” variables have fallen by a greater amount in recent years than we would in the absence of 
the effective lower bound constraint. I would err on that side. We would then have to be willing 
to accept slightly higher inflation when away from the lower bound. 
I also believe forward guidance is an important tool, and that asset purchases help 
communicate the Committee’s resolve to keep the policy accommodative for longer than normal. 
I think that is a credibility issue. By engaging in asset purchases, we’re credibly signaling we’re 
going to be lower for longer. And I think the public’s experience with asset purchases should 
only help add credibility should we have to take those extraordinary measures in the future. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, want to join others in thanking 
Governor Clarida for his leadership on this and the staff for what I thought was a helpful way to 
start thinking about this review. Most of what I’ve heard around the table I’m going to shorthand 
in my own comments here, but I’ll say that I think the current framework has served us well. 
Particularly in that period of highly accommodative policy with unconventional measures, it 
would have appeared to help anchor inflation expectations and, I think, contributed to the 
stability of inflation during the expansion. I think it also provided transparency about how we 
define our dual mandate. 

On the other hand, it’s been less clear that the framework has been up to the task during 
the recent period in which inflation has persistently fallen short of our 2 percent objective while 
at the same time the unemployment rate has fallen below estimates of its natural rate. In these 
circumstances, the appropriate direction of policy has been unclear, and we struggle to explain 
what we mean by “a balanced approach” or “symmetry.” 
My own view has been that we should be willing to accept a small deviation of inflation 
below our longer-run objective when labor markets are tightening and economic growth is near 
trend. The focus on a discrete number as our inflation objective, I felt, has placed too much 
attention on deviations from that number without framing the context for either tolerating such 
deviations or expecting the Committee to respond. Of course, other members of the Committee 
interpret this differently. So I think we have an opportunity to clarify this aspect of the 
framework. 
Along these lines, the staff memo argues that policymakers could have pursued greater 
accommodation within this current framework through increased use of forward guidance and 
balance sheet policy. Outcomes realized by other countries makes this less clear, and I agree 
with President Mester and others that we should ensure a very robust assessment of the benefits 
and costs as we move forward. Notwithstanding our limited experience with forward guidance 
and asset purchases, I recognize we may be faced with using these tools again should we return 
to the effective lower bound and deem additional accommodation is required. 
I think forward guidance about our policy rate path can be effective in shaping 
expectations and providing accommodation. And though asset purchases have likely provided 
modest additional accommodation in some circumstances, they’ve also been fraught with 

undesirable side effects that threaten the Federal Reserve’s independence and make the 
subsequent removal of accommodation more challenging. 
Finally, another important aspect of the framework that I think is worth revisiting is the 
role of monetary policy and financial stability, as others have noted. The quantitative 
surveillance assessments we take in provide relevant insight to the nature of vulnerabilities in the 
financial system, but what exactly is expected of monetary policy’s reactions to those 
vulnerabilities is an unresolved question, as others have raised today. 
Across these dimensions, it will be important to achieve clarity and transparency without 
adding to the length and complexity of this communication device. That might argue for waiting 
until we complete our review before suggesting changes, and I look forward to these discussions. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d like to add my thanks to Governor Clarida 
and to the authors of the background memos for providing a comprehensive discussion of the 
evolving monetary policy framework and the events that led to its current form. I found the 
materials very helpful and thought provoking. 
I’d like to make a few observations from the perspective of someone who is a relatively 
new participant in these discussions. We know now that our approach to monetary policy over 
the past decade was evolving in parallel with important underlying structural changes in the 
economy, including a decline in the long-run rate of unemployment, a lower natural rate of 
interest, and a weaker relationship between resource utilization and inflation—that is, a flattening 
of the Phillips curve. 

Our understanding of these developments has been improved with the benefit of 
hindsight, and, as the staff memos show clearly, policymakers learned slowly about these 
structural transformations in the economy. And we’re continuing to learn. Our still-imperfect 
understanding of these ongoing structural changes and the potential for further changes to occur 
limit our ability to use our past experience to inform our decisions about the policy framework. 
Put more simply, the lessons of the recent past may not provide a clear roadmap for the 
future. In particular, both the magnitude and persistence of these structural changes seem highly 
uncertain. For instance, it seems possible that the factors that led to a reduction in the natural 
rate of interest could unwind in due course, and, if so, our focus on the implications of the 
effective lower bound may not be fully informed. 
That said, it’s worth recalling where we stand at the present time. The unemployment 
rate is lower than at any time since the 1960s, inflation has remained relatively close to our target 
by historical standards, and the financial system looks to be resilient. From that perspective at 
least, the current policy framework has served us quite well. Of course, there’s always room for 
improvement, and to that end I see a couple areas where we might want to focus our efforts 
during this framework review. 
The first is our communications. In the years since the previous recession, the monetary 
policy framework has evolved, albeit out of necessity, into a complex machine with multiple 
levers. And while, as I said, this framework has been serving us quite well, the sheer complexity 
of it does pose challenges in terms of transparency, credibility, and ease of communication. 
Even if the economy continues to perform well for an extended period of time, I suspect that our 
policy communications will prove to be more complicated and difficult than before. And 

because of that, we should use this opportunity to consider whether the various methods of 
communicating our actions are the best that they can be. 
For instance, our current policy communications include our formal statement, the press 
conference, the SEP, the release of the meeting minutes, as well as intermeeting interviews and 
commentary. Although all of these communications provide important transparency around our 
decisions, I also see that the cacophony of our voices may obscure our message or lead to 
ambiguity or misinterpretation and unintended setting of expectations. We should look for ways 
to convey our collective message more clearly while still fulfilling our obligation to the public to 
be transparent about our actions and reasoning. 
Second, and relatedly, I’d like to see the Committee reach a clearer consensus on what 
the goal of price stability specifically entails. In the short time I’ve been on the FOMC, I have 
observed material differences around the table in our interpretations of the 2 percent inflation 
target. Given a history of double-digit inflation in the not-so-distant past, should we consider 
inflation at its current expected level and the Board staff’s estimate of the underlying inflation 
rate to be basically a success in achieving our goal of price stability? Or should we consider it a 
significant deviation from our target that we should work hard to address? And does that answer 
depend on where we stand with regard to our maximum-employment goal? 
Inflation expectations, actual inflation, and, in fact, growth in employment can depend on 
what the public thinks our answers are to these questions. And so I believe our policy 
framework could be strengthened if we could provide ourselves and the public with more clarity 
on these issues. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 

MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’d like to first thank the staff for a 
thoughtful, clear, and concise set of memos. They help sharpen the issues nicely and are well 
designed to create a structured approach that can help us achieve an improved framework that we 
all understand and can support. 
In my view, the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy framework has been effective in 
helping the Committee keep the economy close to the targets the Committee established as 
benchmarks for defining the achievement of the dual mandate. I actually think the essential 
feature of the framework is an overarching philosophy that the Federal Reserve will retain 
flexibility and optionality in trying to achieve its mandates. As noted in the roadmap memo, this 
openness to change has been a hallmark of the Fed for decades, and this has set an important 
expectation among households, businesses, financial markets, and policymakers that the Fed 
stands ready to do what is necessary to stabilize the economy and move it closer to its longer-run 
targets. 
That said, there are some decisions that may have introduced problems. The choice of a 
single-point-in-time numeric target for the inflation goal may have created an undesirable 
situation in which the target is being perceived as a ceiling. And regarding the symmetry around 
the 2 percenttarget, I actually thought I knew what it was when I walked into the room 
[laughter], but now I think I may be confused. What does it mean to try to deliver 2 percent, on 
average, over time if bygones are truly bygones? 
Now, I understand the appeal to symmetry, and I understand its importance for anchoring 
expectations. But is our stated decision rule actually in conflict with this? Or, to President 
Evans’s point, is it even real? And I think we need to come to some clarity. I think, Governor 
Bowman, you were talking to this issue as well. 

Similarly, the dot plot may be providing a false signal that the Committee has made some 
policy decisions, and these signals may now be a driver of market expectations for policy 
moving forward. In addition, members of the Committee have, for some time, been arguing that 
forward guidance should be deployed with extreme care and caution because it can potentially 
harden expectations and lock the Committee into policy actions that may no longer be justified 
by the data. Thinking is already under way on each of these issues, and there is value in 
developing a list of these potential problem areas and working to get to a good spot in each. 
Regarding policy at the effective lower bound, I think the memos make a compelling 
argument that first actions are important and so should be large and have the potential to be 
decisive. This seems right to me. Beyond that, my view is that the appropriate course of action 
will be very situation-specific—which makes it hard for me to be too explicit with 
recommendations. 
While reading the memos, a couple of issues came to mind. First, in terms of making use 
of commitment mechanisms, are we comfortable to commit to calling out hard targets? To the 
extent that we don’t call out numbers, then it might be more appropriate to call this a “suggestion 
mechanism.” And I’m doubtful that this is as powerful as a harder commitment. 
The first memo made it very clear that the Committee’s past use of forward guidance was 
pretty modest and confined to thresholds that were not likely to cause many questions about the 
Committee’s commitment to hold steady until those thresholds were reached. For example, it 
seems unlikely that anyone in December 2013 doubted that the Committee would choose to hold 
rates steady as long as the unemployment rate exceeded 6½ percent. 
An unanswered question in my mind is whether the current framework can be enhanced 
or deployed to better effect. If future statements like “We won’t raise rates until” are tied to 

thresholds that seems more of a stretch. And, more importantly, should we be willing to do this? 
If not, that would seem to have some implications for future conversations about alternatives, 
which might also depend on strong forms of commitment. 
Second, I was intrigued by the assertion that monetary policy is asymmetric because the 
effective lower bound is binding. To the extent that unconventional monetary policies are 
effective, then there is theoretically not a constraint at the lower bound of conventional policy. 
Now, I inferred from the review of our balance sheet policies that there is some 
skepticism among the staff that even much larger expansions would have been sufficient to fully 
offset effective-lower-bound constraints. President Daly just recently touched on this and called 
unconventional and conventional policy tools “incomplete substitutes.” The question I have is, 
do they need to be complete? My thinking about the adequacy of the current framework will be 
importantly influenced by whether or not a sufficiently aggressive balance sheet policy can, in 
most circumstances, mitigate the effective-lower-bound constraint. If the staff or others have 
more to say about this, I’d like to hear those opinions. 
I also think that the material on the interaction of the effective lower bound, the flat 
Phillips curve, and inflation expectations is informative. I understand that the effective lower 
bound raises the stakes on a lot of other complications in the economic environment. But I don’t 
think we should lose sight of the fact that the flat Phillips curve also creates problems for the 
case where inflation is above our target. With a flat Phillips curve and not fully rational 
expectations, achieving our dual mandate begins to look really challenging if, for some reason, 
we find ourselves in a protracted period of inflation in excess of our longer-run goal. We are 
right to focus on the effective lower bound, but our framework discussion needs to consider the 
full set of potential scenarios we might face. 

In thinking about the Statement of Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy and 
its role in policy, I’d like to offer up this reflection. I think the long-run statement’s greatest 
potential value is to articulate a reasonable guiding philosophy in an accessible way. In this 
sense, it should not strive to be a fully articulated policy response function. In this spirit, it could 
acknowledge the existence of the effective lower bound and note that unconventional policy 
actions will be deployed if necessary when the effective lower bound is reached. Beyond that, I 
think it would be difficult to say a lot more than what is already in the statement. 
I recognize that a simple statement with such slight amendments will leave a lot of open 
questions that the Committee will have to face and make decisions on in reaching any specific 
policy decisions. I could go into a thorough review of these here, but my staff strongly hinted 
that I was already running too long. [Laughter] So, instead, I will reach out to the staff so they 
are aware of some of the things that are on my mind. 
Suffice it to say that actual policy decisions will be dependent on the context at that time 
and will therefore need to be explained at that time in that light. It would not be appropriate for 
the long-run statement to presuppose the context that the Committee will face or to pre-commit 
the Committee to a subset of actions, given the many contextual permutations that are possible. 
In sum, I view the long-run statement as more of a mission statement. I don’t think there 
are obvious ways to change the statement to make it substantially more useful for understanding 
policy and our understanding of economic dynamics. By contrast, the framework is firmly 
located in the space of contextualized thinking and can be communicated through speeches, the 
meeting statements, minutes, conferences, and policy actions. Being clear on this distinction in 
function and form will be quite helpful for the Committee in executing policy moving forward. 

There are two other items that were raised today that I’d like to respond to. First, I’m 
totally onboard with the thrust of President Rosengren’s last question on the sustainability of the 
attainment of our goals. Sustainability is quite an important concept, as are concerns about it. 
Now, Vice Chair Williams offered one take on this, highlighting a distinction between 
structurally and cyclically low interest rates. Is this right? And is it the only way to think about 
this? It would be good to have the staff’s thinking on this point. 
And then, finally, I want to thank President Evans for raising the issue of whether we 
really can run the economy extra “hot,” with minimal or relatively low cost. There are many 
communities that need the kind of policy support that this strategy would reflect, and I have been 
to many of them during my time in this role. Could it be that this institution has been wrong in 
its long-held position that monetary policy does not have distributional effects? This is a 
question that we would be well served to try and answer. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also want to thank the staff. I thought 
the memos were very helpful. I want to just highlight a few key points that I took away in 
reading the memos and then go through the questions. 
First, with regard to a low-r* environment, I thought the memos were very clear, and I 
agree with them—err on the side of being more accommodative rather than more restrictive and, 
if there’s a downturn, ease early and ease aggressively. 
Second, I think it’s now conventional wisdom that the Bank of Japan was too timid in 
response to low inflation. I’m going to come back to that point. 
Third, I think it’s clear—to me, at least—that U.S. policy overall has been too tight in this 
recovery. And I’m going to parse the recovery into two segments: the period immediately 

following the Great Recession—the immediate recovery period—and the normalization period. I 
think it’s been too tight in both periods. 
In the immediate aftermath of the Great Recession, I think that quantitative easing (QE) 
and forward guidance did help deal with the limitations of the effective lower bound, but only 
partially, and the persistence of the benefits was highly uncertain. So I think, with the benefit of 
hindsight, policy in this period was too restrictive. I think we now know that QE could have 
been larger and forward guidance provided with a firmer commitment. There were reasonable 
fears at the time, because these were untested tools, of runaway inflation or what it would do to 
currencies. This is with the benefit of hindsight that I’m saying this. Those are not unreasonable 
fears, but I think that learning how it worked here and how it worked abroad means we could be 
more aggressive in a future downturn. 
In the more recent period, I think our normalization policy of raising the federal funds 
rate nine times was not actually called for by our current framework because of the symmetry of 
our inflation target. We raised rates when inflation was always at or below our target. Optimal 
policy, in my judgment, has inflation and the labor market in tension. During this period, there 
was no tension, there was no tradeoff. Inflation was low, and there was still slack in the labor 
market, so this was the “free lunch” zone. So it was not the framework that limited us. It was 
our own implementation of that framework that limited us. 
On the second question, I think our current symmetric framework can actually be very 
powerful with what we’ve learned, and we can accomplish a lot within our current framework. 
As I mentioned, I think we could use QE more aggressively in the future, and I think we should 
give forward guidance with a stronger commitment. The symmetric inflation target provides us 
with a lot of room to make such commitments safely. For example, I argued at the previous 

meeting—as I will, again, at this meeting—for us to make a commitment not to raise the federal 
funds rate until core inflation reaches our target on a sustained basis. That isn’t calling for an 
explicit overshoot of the inflation target or a makeup of past inflation shortfalls, but it uses the 
breathing room provided by the symmetry of our target to make this strong commitment. 
In addition, I think we should consider using forward guidance away from the effective 
lower bound. I think our goal should be to avoid the ELB in the first place. If we wait to use 
forward guidance until once we have hit the ELB, it strikes me as a sign of weakness, not a sign 
of strength. It means that we’re already out of policy space, so now we’re going to commit to 
staying in the very place we were trying to avoid. It reminds me—like, if we’re driving down 
the road and we want to avoid driving into the ditch, but we end up in the ditch, and then we say, 
“Well, now I want to be in the ditch, and I’m going to stay in the ditch.” It strikes me as not very 
credible. We’re in the ditch because we can’t get out of the ditch. To me, it’s much more 
powerful if we can make the forward guidance, make the commitment, when we still have 
traditional policy space and when we can demonstrate we’re the ones actually making decisions 
about the rate, not the economy driving us into the ditch—hence, my call for us using forward 
guidance today to commit not to raise rates until inflation returns to our target. 
On the third question, I’m going to leave discussion of makeup strategies for a future 
meeting, and I know the staff is working on memos. The key consideration that I’m thinking of 
for any possible changes to our strategy statement is, how do we make it more likely a future 
Committee will follow through on the described strategies? As I said earlier, it’s easy for us 
today to say the Bank of Japan was too timid. I think we’re learning it’s harder to walk the walk 
ourselves. Are there words we can write down that would make it more likely for a future 
Committee to actually walk the walk? I don’t know. I haven’t thought of them yet. As the staff 

prepares its analysis of potential makeup strategies, I would welcome thoughts on why a future 
Committee would be more likely to stick to those strategies, which will call for low rates when 
inflation is at 2½ percent or 3 percent, when we weren’t willing to keep rates low when inflation 
was below target in this recovery. 
And then, lastly, I just want to echo something President Evans said, which is us being 
explicit about the costs of very low unemployment. I think it’s enormously important that we be 
precise, because why did we raise rates beginning in 2015? Inflation was low. We have a 
symmetric target, so if inflation climbed, the Committee would see it, and we would respond. 
The only real justification that I can come up with is that there were fears of nonlinearities in the 
inflation process, that all of a sudden we might get surprised or fall “behind the curve” and we 
would have to raise rates aggressively. Well, three years later, at least so far, those nonlinearities 
have not emerged. That doesn’t mean they can’t in the future, but so far they haven’t emerged. 
But now people are talking about more vague notions of imbalances. And imbalances mean we 
can’t measure it. It’s like, it could be this, it could be that. 
The costs to the labor market are real if we raise rates. I think we owe it to the public to 
be very precise on what we’re trying to achieve, what these so-called imbalances really are. 
Otherwise, we’re going to find ourselves in the same trap in which we start raising rates for some 
ghost that we are afraid is out there. We’re not going to bear the cost of that, but the public is. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. We’ve got a ways to go. It’s lunchtime. We’re going to 
break for lunch here, and we’re going to start again at 12:45 sharp. Thank you. 
[Lunch recess] 

CHAIR POWELL. Okay. We’re going to start again. There are a handful of additional 
interventions, and then we’ll have some time at the end of those if people want to just jump in 
and converse. So, with that, over to you, President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, as others have said, to the staff 
and the Steering Committee for doing an excellent job and getting us off to a great start. I’m just 
going to make four or five points, particularly because it’s after lunch. And let me first say, as 
others have said, I think we’ve been very well served by taking a balanced approach to monetary 
policy, and what I mean by that is balancing reaching the employment objective with reaching 
our inflation objective. I think this approach has involved a commitment to our goals but a 
flexibility in the tactics to achieve them, and I think, over the past 10 years, flexibility in a 
changing landscape has been very helpful. 
I also think that this approach has required patience, particularly in all of those years 
when the Committee’s policy rate was at or near zero, and an understanding that monetary policy 
acts with a lag. And I think up until recently, and I’ll comment on that, this approach has been 
relatively well understood by the public, and the public has had a general understanding of the 
Committee’s reaction function. And the reason I say it’s “up until recently” is because I think 
when this Committee was not achieving either of our dual objectives, it was at least 
directionally—we could disagree about the ferocity—but directionally, it was clear what actions 
we would take. 
I think it’s gotten complicated as we’ve approached achievement of our employment 
objective. I know not everybody agrees we’ve achieved it, but, by and large, as we’ve gotten in 
the vicinity of achieving it but still run behind our inflation objective, I think it’s fair to say 
there’s been debate around this table that balance has tempered our decision on interest rates and 

on the balance sheet. But I also think the public now has a less well-understood grasp of our 
framework. And what do I mean by that? If you went out and did a poll, I would guess, of 
our—I can speak for my own—regional boards, business people, and consumers, they would not 
think that inflation somewhat below target is dangerous. I think there’s an opportunity in this 
framework review to go back out and better define price stability and better explain why 
undershooting this inflation objective is potentially risky. But I don’t think it’s well understood 
right now. 
I think that this balanced approach—some would argue, I know, around this table—has 
restrained our ability to generate higher rates of inflation. I think others, on the other hand, 
would argue it’s helped us avoid actions that might have led us to create excesses and 
imbalances. And I think the debate we’re having, certainly at the Dallas Fed, is: Once you’ve 
achieved full employment, are the benefits of a more singular focus on moving inflation to target 
or above target offset by the risks of creating undue excesses and imbalances? And I think, as 
part of this framework review, that is something that we’re going to have to continue to debate. 
That is a particular concern to me, because we believe the structure of the U.S. economy 
has changed over the past several years. Technology, technology-enabled disruption, and 
globalization have affected the pricing ability of businesses. We’ve talked about this before. 
And I think more research needs to be done to understand how monetary policy is affecting the 
cyclical versus the structural elements of inflation. How is monetary policy affecting headline 
inflation? And I would like to see us, as part of this review, do more work on that. 
As to the second question here, I’m very open to exploring potential improvements to our 
framework and the use of forward guidance and balance sheet policies. However, like others 
have mentioned, I’d be very concerned about commitments to specific tactics in the future ahead 

of knowing the specifics of any given situation. I would be reluctant to make commitments that 
lead us to effectively or in part abandon our balanced approach unless we understand the 
specifics of the situation that we’re addressing. And this is the commitment issue that many of 
you mentioned. I’m sure we’ll wrestle with that. 
Another subject I’d like to see further discussed as part of the framework review is the 
role of balance sheet policies: the role they play in depressing the level of market-determined 
interest rates and creating a flatter inverted yield curve, which I think has, in turn, limited the 
ability of this Committee to raise the federal funds rate and limited our ability to normalize 
monetary policy. I’m particularly concerned about this as we seem to be struggling, and the 
world seems to be struggling, to reduce the size of the balance sheet when times are good. And 
so, as we embark on discussions of the future use of balance sheet policies, I think discussion of 
their longer-term effects and limitations on the ability to normalize monetary policy later is 
worth examining. 
Last two comments. As others have said, I do think, in our question three on our 
statement, I would like to see us more explicitly consider the risk of excesses and imbalances. 
And while you’re approaching those excesses and imbalances and creating them, it seems vague 
as to what the risks are until those imbalances spill over, and then it becomes more apparent and, 
I think, ultimately can jeopardize the ability of this Committee to achieve its dual-mandate 
objectives. I guess, put more plainly—and I guess this is a sensitive discussion—in our efforts to 
extend the expansion, are we creating excesses and imbalances that ultimately imperil our ability 
to create sustainable full employment and price stability? And this is something that President 
Rosengren touched on. 

I think we’d do well to acknowledge regularly that monetary policy is not the be-all and 
end-all of economic policy. I know we know that here, but I think, for the public, it’s worth 
emphasizing that. There’s a danger, I think, of central banks trying to do too much and being 
pressured to do too much and, by doing so, again, ultimately jeopardizing our ability to achieve 
our dual-mandate objectives. In this context, I’m very mindful of the fact that the bulk of federal 
funds rate increases that got us to a target range of 2¼ percent to 2½ percent came in anticipation 
of fiscal stimulus and in the aftermath of substantial fiscal stimulus. And so I think we’d do well 
just acknowledging that we are a key part of economic policy, but there are other elements that 
are also critical that will allow us to achieve our dual-mandate objectives. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let me add to the tsunami of gratitude to the 
staff for an informative set of memos and to Governor Clarida for organizing and leading the 
process. As was highlighted in the introductory memo, obviously the Federal Reserve has 
changed its framework before, or we’d still be following the “real bills” doctrine, but not in this 
public and reflective and organized manner. And though, at least in my mind, it remains to be 
seen what, if any, changes would result from this review, the process itself is a welcome 
innovation, and I think it’s already a success in terms of transparency and public accountability, 
and those are all good things. 
I thought both of the key memos this round were very relevant. I was interested in what I 
saw as their somewhat divergent views on the effective lower bound. Now, it’s entirely possible 
that the authors of the memos would say to me, along with T.S. Eliot, “That is not what I meant 
at all. That is not it, at all.” 

But I took away from the first memo that, with balance sheet policies and forward 
guidance, the Fed was able to limit many of the negative effects of the ELB during the crisis. I 
share what I think was President Bostic’s view that whether these tools were complete substitutes 
for traditional policy or not, they were pretty effective and, quite arguably, effective enough. 
Unemployment outcomes during the recovery were not much different than in other recoveries 
even with the constraint of the ELB. Inflation remained relatively well anchored through the 
crisis and its aftermath, notwithstanding some more recent shortfalls. But, in contrast to that 
view of the first memo, the simulations in the second memo are based on the assumption that the 
ELB is a binding constraint, with the FOMC unable to pursue unconventional policies. For me, 
the question is, is that a reasonable assumption? 
In these simulations, it’s particularly important, for example, what the markets will 
expect the Committee to do. My assumption is that the markets expect that we would engage in 
further balance sheet policies if we were to hit the ELB again. And, more generally, how much 
of a constraint on monetary policy the ELB constitutes and what tools we might have to mitigate 
that constraint are essential building blocks in our discussion of frameworks. 
As a practical suggestion, I think our discussion of tools—that is, the policy options 
available when the short-term rate is constrained by the ELB—should be as robust and 
prominent as our discussion of alternative frameworks. And I see several reasons for 
emphasizing, even making a priority of, a discussion of tools. First, a proper understanding of 
the policy constraints associated with the ELB is essential to evaluating the alternative 
frameworks, such as average inflation targeting that we’re likely to be discussing. Model 
simulations that are based on a binding ELB constraint aren’t very informative if they rule out 

balance sheet policies that the Committee is likely to take and that the market is likely to expect 
us to take if there were a severe downturn. 
Second, in the current environment of a low r* and low inflation, it’s unlikely that any 
change in the framework would keep us off of the ELB into perpetuity. Alternative frameworks 
might decrease the chance of hitting the ELB but, in our current environment, probably not by 
much. So I view an examination of our toolkit of policy options at the ELB to be a high priority. 
And, third, I worry a bit about overemphasizing the ELB as we communicate our 
rationale for alternative frameworks. The ELB is a constraint on one of our policy tools: the 
short-term interest rate. A discussion of our broader toolkit might be another way of lowering 
ELB-related risk by reassuring the public that we have more than one tool in our toolbox, and 
that the more frequent occurrence of the ELB—that, in fact, I think we would all expect in the 
current environment—need not result in much worse macroeconomic outcomes. 
So just a word on balance sheet policies. I agree with the memo’s conclusion that many 
of the fears that the policies provoked and that likely constrained their use during the crisis did 
not come to pass—not in the United States and not in the other jurisdictions around the world in 
which they were employed. And as President Kashkari and a couple of others around the table 
have said, with the costs now better understood, these policies are likely to be used more 
effectively during the next downturn. 
Now, I fully realize that I am generally viewed as hanging with the crowd that has a 
quasi-religious aversion to balance sheet policies in the same way that some view a black mass—
possibly effective, but dangerous for exactly that reason. [Laughter] But I’m a friendly heretic 
on that point. In any event, I believe that facts are facts, and the staff’s work is, I think, a useful 
and persuasive statement of the facts. And, again, as to the questions that Presidents Mester and 

Daly and others have emphasized about the complete effectiveness of those policies, I’d again 
emphasize that I’m inclined along the lines that President Bostic expressed of wondering 
whether they are, nonetheless, effective enough. 
I’d add that I don’t think there’s any inconsistency in supporting the use of the balance 
sheet for the conduct of monetary policy while simultaneously arguing for the balance sheet to 
be kept at its smallest possible size. One reason I’ve advocated taking measures to shrink excess 
reserves rather aggressively is that I think it’s important to show that expansions in the balance 
sheet can eventually be reversed. And knowing that use of the balance sheet as a policy tool 
doesn’t necessitate a permanent ratcheting-up of the balance sheet is likely to increase support 
for its use. I think we would all agree with that. 
Finally—well, maybe not quite “finally,” because I’ve got one paragraph after this, but—
so, “now” [laughter], a comment on our symmetric inflation target, which I hadn’t really 
intended to raise, but it’s principally for the benefit of the minutes, given some of the other 
discussions, because all of you who have heard me say this before, I think, know where I’d 
stand. I believe that symmetry around a range means—and if, contrary to Noah Webster and 
Ludwig Wittgenstein, it doesn’t mean, then our policy ought to be, and we should find a word to 
reflect it—that we are indifferent to modest misses in either direction from a reasonable target. 
If our inflation target is 2 percent and inflation runs at 2.2 percent or 2.3 percent for the next 
20 years in a row, I will sleep easily at night, and I can turn to finding other ways to fill the hours 
of the day. And if it runs at 1.7 percent or 1.8 percent for 20 years, I will do the same. Our 
measurement of inflation is not precise enough, our understanding of macroeconomic 
relationships is not firm enough, our tools are not surgical enough, and the political economy in 

which we operate is not constant enough to make more anally compulsive inflation targeting 
either effective or necessary. 
Finally, on the question of how we might adjust the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and 
Monetary Policy Strategy in response to our uncertainty over the structure of the economy, one 
aspect of uncertainty that’s particularly important—again, that many have mentioned—is that 
associated with u*. Given this uncertainty, it would be and it clearly has been difficult to 
motivate policy to hit any particular u* target, and perhaps that difficulty calls for a 
reexamination of the statement language on u* to make it clearer that we are unlikely to tighten 
simply because u falls below u*. Of course, that raises difficult questions of how we would 
respond if u were to rise above our estimates of u*. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I welcome this opportunity to continue our 
discussion of the monetary policy framework, starting from where we left off just one year ago. 
I appreciate the leadership of Governor Clarida, as well as the excellent papers by the staff today, 
the Chicago conference, and Fed Listens discussions. 
It is valuable to start by updating the foundational assumptions that informed the current 
policy framework. Three conditioning assumptions have formed my view of the new normal, 
which has informed my policy views over the past four years. First, we are likely to see more 
frequent and prolonged episodes when the federal funds rate is pinned at its lower bound. In 
part, this reflects an equilibrium rate that’s much lower than in the decades before the crisis. We 
can see the evolution of that key conditioning assumption in the sharp decline in the SEP median 
longer-run federal funds rate, which decreased from 4¼ percent in January of 2012, similar to the 

average value of 4½ percent in previous decades, to our most recent estimate that’s closer to the 
2½ percent level. 
Considering that the FOMC has cut the federal funds rate, on average, about 450 basis 
points in response to recessions over the past five decades, current estimates indeed suggest the 
buffer is much smaller at only half that amount. That is a large loss of policy space and could be 
expected to increase the frequency or length of periods when the policy rate is pinned at the 
lower bound, unemployment is elevated, and inflation is below target. In turn, those frequent or 
extended periods of low inflation run the risk of pulling down private-sector inflation 
expectations. This self-reinforcing downward spiral is extremely dangerous, as we see 
elsewhere. Furthermore, if recent experience is any guide, fiscal policy cannot be counted on to 
play a reliably countercyclical role. 
Second, underlying trend inflation is mired somewhat below 2 percent. This conclusion 
emerges from the use of a variety of statistical filtering methods and is reinforced by a variety of 
survey measures of expectations, as well as market measures of inflation compensation. 
Third, the sensitivity of price inflation to labor resource utilization is very low—or, put 
more simply, the Phillips curve is inert. A flat Phillips curve has important advantages. The 
labor market can strengthen a lot and pull many workers who may otherwise be sidelined back 
into productive employment without accelerating inflation. On the other hand, it also makes it 
harder to boost inflation during expansion and to achieve our 2 percent inflation objective on a 
sustainable basis. And that, in turn, could further compress conventional policy space in a 
negative spiral. 
In addition, as we have seen, it means the traditional relationship between inflation and 
unemployment can be a very misleading guide for monetary policy, and it raises questions about 

the “balanced approach” discussion in our Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy 
Strategy. It’s the combination of these three developments together and their implications that 
need to be considered in our review of the framework. 
With that as a backdrop, it does make sense to review the effectiveness of our policy 
framework in light of the contours of today’s new normal, which is considering both the reaction 
function that guides policy over the cycle—described in the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and 
Monetary Policy Strategy—as well as the adequacy of policy space to buffer the economy from 
negative shocks when conventional policy space alone is inadequate. 
The staff memos focus on our tools as they have been used in the past and, in that sense, 
pick up naturally where last July’s discussion left off. They raise the possibility that more could 
be done with forward guidance, even without going so far as to embrace inflation overshooting. 
Arguably, the most innovative use of forward guidance over the past decade was the adoption of 
an unemployment threshold in late 2012. Under that policy, the Committee pledged not to raise 
the funds rate at least as long as the unemployment rate remained above 6½ percent. In the end, 
the Committee didn’t raise the funds rate until unemployment had fallen to 5 percent and, in fact, 
didn’t raise the funds rate again after that until it had reached 4¾ percent. I think this episode, 
more than anything else, illustrates the risk of relying on an unemployment target alone when 
estimates of maximum employment change with the contours of the economy, and the 
conventional implications for inflation through the Phillips curve are inoperative. In short, even 
when employing and then relaxing threshold-based forward guidance, we lifted off too early 
because of faulty assumptions based on historical relationships. 
Our discussion last year suggested that a threshold based on inflation might be effective 
at stabilizing an economy with limited conventional policy space. Even without formally 

committing to overshooting or a makeup policy, it is likely, given the usual lags in the economy, 
a 2 percent inflation threshold would, in fact, lead to some overshooting. 
All told, even under very strong assumptions about the predictability and credibility of an 
inflation threshold policy combining asset purchases with forward guidance, the combined 
effects of these policies, at least in the analysis, turned out to be less than satisfactory. For this 
reason, it’s important to cast our net more broadly as we consider the range of options for dealing 
with the loss of conventional policy space. 
I look forward to future consideration of a range of policies—in particular, policies that 
seek to make up for a protracted shortfall from our objectives during a lower-bound episode. 
The literature suggests that such policies can be particularly effective in addressing the lower-
bound constraint. Although they sound very appealing on their face, they have not yet been 
implemented in practice, and there is some skepticism that any central bank would, in fact, prove 
able to support above-target inflation over a sustained period without becoming concerned that 
inflation might accelerate and inflation expectations might rise too high. We’re going to need to 
closely analyze the requirements for credibility to see whether such policies in fact could be 
implemented in practice. 
Beyond that, to the extent that there is likely to be an enduring compression in the 
average size of our monetary policy buffer driven by an enduringly lower neutral range, it would 
seem irresponsible not to at least consider the pros and cons of raising the inflation target to 
compensate by a modest amount. I wouldn’t be inclined to consider a move to a 4 percent target, 
for instance, but I think it would be valuable to discuss the risks and advantages of considering a 
move to a more modest and perhaps more achievable range, perhaps 2½ to 3 percent. 

In fact, average inflation targeting may not look very different from a modest increase in 
the inflation target to most households and businesses of the sorts that were represented in our 
Fed Listens panels. For instance, if we were in an average inflation-targeting framework today, 
how would we be talking about our inflation goal? Wouldn’t we be saying that we’re targeting 
average inflation of 2½ percent over the next five years in order to achieve our long-run average 
inflation goal of 2 percent after many years with inflation averaging around 1½ percent? In this 
case, after several years of successfully achieving inflation of 2½ percent in order to make up for 
those past misses, we might want to simply lock in the modest increase in our buffer in a policy 
that might be akin to opportunistic reflation. 
In addition, the staff analysis of last year demonstrates that threshold-based asset 
purchases can help improve the effectiveness of monetary policy to the extent that the public 
anticipates asset purchases will be triggered as soon as the lower bound is hit and maintained in 
an open-ended commitment until the thresholds are achieved. To me, this point is really 
important. If, instead—as has been the case in every advanced economy that has employed some 
form of asset purchases—there is uncertainty about the conditions that might trigger those 
purchases and how long they would be sustained, this undercuts the efficacy of those policies. 
And long delays in the deployment of asset purchases, perhaps because of perceived political 
risks, add to the public’s uncertainty. 
To avoid the lumpiness and resulting uncertainty associated with starting and stopping 
balance sheet policies, I remain interested in exploring policies that could extend quasi-
conventional policy space more smoothly and continuously by focusing on interest rates, rather 
than quantities. In particular, once the overnight policy rate reaches the effective lower bound, 
we could push rates down by progressively moving out along the yield curve in the one-to-two-

year horizon. Such progressive yield curve policies would keep the focus on our traditional 
tool—interest rates rather than quantities—and could be initiated and wound down smoothly and 
in a way that reinforces forward guidance. Of course, in the event of a very severe financial 
shock, such a policy could be augmented with limited purchases at the 10-year horizon, but I 
would anticipate those would be more limited in scope and duration. 
Finally, the staff asked us to consider ways in which the Statement on Longer-Run Goals 
and Monetary Policy Strategy should be modified. There is an important sense in which this 
discussion is premature. Nevertheless, I’ll give a few quick answers. Yes, the statement needs 
to be updated for the key features of the “new normal.” Yes, we need to address the nexus 
between financial stability and monetary policy and, in turn, between monetary macroprudential 
and structural policies. But, finally, changes to the statement will be necessary but not sufficient. 
Just as the Committee has augmented the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy 
Strategy with principles and plans for deploying various policy tools, so too it may be desirable 
to indicate to the public in peacetime what our actions might be in the event of a future recession. 
Indeed, the policy review presents a very nice opportunity to sketch such plans with 
reduced risk that doing so might be signaling concerns about elevated recession risk. Laying out 
our plans in general terms for, for instance, average inflation targeting or moving out the yield 
curve well ahead of time may prove useful in reducing uncertainty about what our actions would 
be. And that reduced uncertainty, in turn, could help limit some of the decline in household and 
business sentiment that typically occurs during a recession, perhaps reducing the severity of the 
downturn. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And thanks to the staff for a great analysis and memos 
and presentations, and thanks to everyone for a really excellent round of comments. I’ll offer 

just a few thoughts here as we begin this series of meetings. First, for me, the proximity to the 
effective lower bound and the implications of that together represent the preeminent challenge to 
monetary policy in this era. For starters, we’ll find it challenging to respond to even a typically 
sized downturn. The downward drift in the neutral rate limits space for conventional policy, and 
the efficacy of what we have been calling “unconventional tools” is, as we go forward, an open 
question. 
My own view is that quantitative easing (QE) and forward guidance provide a 
meaningful support for demand, but they are not perfect substitutes for traditional tools. It’s also 
possible that future rounds of QE will be less effective than in the past, especially if Treasury 
yields’ term premiums remain compressed. A lot of the studies that show high efficacy of QE 
depend on QE1, which was a surprise. If policy is really about moving expectations, I think 
there are real questions about the efficacy of it, which is not to say that we won’t use it 
aggressively. 
In addition, the flat Phillips curve makes running a “hot” economy less effective at 
boosting inflation. Inflation shortfalls that persist even in a robust economy could lead to a 
difficult-to-arrest downward shift in inflation expectations, especially if a recession hits us before 
we achieve our target. Core inflation has been running below 2 percent for a long time. If the 
economy falls into another drawn-out ELB episode with dulled tools and a flat Phillips curve, 
inflation expectations could easily slide further, and the vicious cycle will continue. We may 
find ourselves on the disinflationary road a couple of decades behind Japan and a few years 
behind the euro area—a road that is hard to exit. Better to fight now to avoid getting on it in the 
first place. 

The U.S. experience proves that ELB episodes are not necessarily economic black holes 
from which there is no escape, but the climb out can be prolonged and painful. More broadly, in 
this world, I suspect that the consequences of overly restrictive policy are now more painful and 
persistent than those of overaccommodation. That was obviously not the case during previous 
eras, such as the Great Inflation, and I’m not under the illusion that this is a permanent state of 
affairs or that it is not possible that pursuing this insight beyond its useful boundaries could cause 
trouble. 
As some of you have pointed out, there’s also a risk that using monetary policy to push 
sufficiently hard on labor markets to lift inflation could encourage destabilizing excesses in 
financial markets. We have nonmonetary policy tools to address financial stability: among 
them, high through-the-cycle capital and liquidity requirements and stress tests. And I think 
most circumstances warrant relying on those more targeted tools before putting the brakes on the 
real economy. 
Uncertainty about key values, such as u* and r*, and about the slope of the Phillips curve 
has always presented challenges for the conduct of monetary policy. But proximity to the ELB 
imbues old issues with greater significance. That is why now is the perfect time to be conducting 
a review. As Governor Clarida highlighted, we’re going to examine the tools deployed over the 
years, the “bygones are bygones” approach that we have used, and the Statement on Longer-Run 
Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. That document was agreed to in January 2012, a few 
months before I joined the Board and just after many fierce battles over the language. I 
witnessed and took part in a few of the final skirmishes in my early years. And, since then, 
peace broke out. Not much changed. We tend to vote on it unchanged each year. And I’ll just 
say that those battles, for me, helped focus attention on the key issues that are embedded in the 

document, and I find that I’ve returned to it time and time again over the years to help me think 
about our framework. And I think those of us who weren’t here then will find that it’s quite a 
useful document. I think fixing the longer-run statement—or amending it, if you will—is 
necessary. I’m not under any illusion that it would be sufficient. 
Regarding our framework, clearly, it did serve us well. Equally clearly, we now know 
that we could have been, in hindsight, much more aggressive. And I think we will be in the 
future. I think the idea that acting preemptively to gathering weaknesses is a good idea, and I 
think we’ll do that. But that doesn’t in any way, to me, undercut the broader point that this new 
world that we’ve been living in now—really, for 10 years of low r*, low u*, flat Phillips curve, a 
proximate effective lower bound, centrality of inflation expectations, usefulness of 
unconventional monetary policy, the financial stability implications of that—all of those are, 
effectively, new, since 10 years ago, and we haven’t really grappled with them. That’s why this 
is such a great time for us to be doing this, a decade after the crisis, and doing everything we can 
to formally incorporate that into our framework. 
My last thought would be, I think the process of thinking about these changes and then 
implementing them needs to be careful, deliberate, and patient. I think this is not something that 
we should be working to a hard deadline on. Think about how long it took for inflation targeting 
around the world to become the norm. And I think we found this over the years on many issues, 
when we take our time and let issues steep a little bit and come back to them again. I’m not 
suggesting we spend the rest of our careers on this [laughter]—it begins to sound that way—but I 
don’t see next January as a hard stop. I see us getting this done when it’s ready to be done. 

And, with that, I will stop. As I mentioned earlier, if anyone would like to offer 
comments or reactions to this broad set of topics, we’ll have a time of just open comment. 
President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I just had two things that maybe are “asks” of the staff or for consideration 
for further discussion. The first one is on this notion of an “incomplete substitute.” President 
Bostic and Governor Quarles both picked up on this idea; you never know what’s going to be 
picked up in your statement. So I don’t think there’s a big disagreement between us that an 
incomplete substitute is still a good tool. The question that isn’t really covered in the memos that 
we saw so far is, how incomplete are they going to be? And so even as the Chair just mentioned, 
even when you look at the episodes after the financial crisis, there’s quite a bit of difference both 
in how researchers interpret any one QE movement, but also how effective they were as we got 
out of dysfunctional financial markets and into more functioning financial markets. So I think 
additional work on that—or at least a survey article or survey memo that talks about those 
differences that we’ve talked about before—would be helpful, because then we know what we’re 
deciding on. How incomplete are the tools? 
The second thing I want to ask about is in this discussion of target ranges for inflation 
where you’re thinking about 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent. Vice Chair Williams started his remarks 
by saying that we’re going to be in a situation in which the bias is all in the negative shocks to 
inflation, and you could end up with average inflation running lower simply because we’re close 
to the ELB. If that’s the case, and we’re in a 1.5 to 2.5 percent range—I was trying to parse this 
out—it’s a little bit like we’re deciding that it’s okay to have a buffer that’s 50 basis points lower 
than the one we decided on. That leads me to wonder, could we go back—I know we’re not 
talking about changing 2 percent—and recirculate some of the memos and things that were used 

in the deliberations when 2 percent was decided as the sufficient buffer, and there was an 
unwillingness to go to 1.5 percent because we thought that 1.5 was just too dangerously close to 
1 percent. I think that’s part of level setting, especially for people who haven’t been on the 
Committee and been part of that discussion. And if those values have changed, we should know 
it, but if they haven’t changed, it’s also good to reaffirm them. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. It was a really interesting discussion. I think one of the challenges 
is, there’s a disagreement about the current framework, and until we get agreement on the current 
framework, it’s hard to talk about the future framework. What do I mean by that? I’d say the 
people closest to the Federal Reserve flag are emphasizing the word “symmetric” in our 
statement, and the people closest to the map—this is a gross generalization—are emphasizing the 
words “balanced approach” in what they’re thinking. 
Let me give a concrete example of how that would manifest itself. Those that emphasize 
“symmetric”—let’s say that you know with certainty that there’s no financial stability concerns 
whatsoever, and one year from now you’re going to be at 1.9 percent on both core and total 
inflation, but you’re going to be slightly below what you think the natural rate of unemployment 
is going to be. Those people closest to the flag seem to think that “symmetric” means that, in 
that case, we might want to ease, because we’re below 2 percent. Those people closest to the 
map seem to say, “Well, inflation and unemployment are basically balanced and close to their 
target. We don’t have much of a need to do something.” 
That challenge carries itself when we go forward. To give an example, a bunch of the 
people who are closest to the map thought that a range might make sense. Now, different people 
in this group probably have a different concept of what that range means. Jim Bullard, for 

example, highlighted that he thought it means we would focus on 1½ percent. If it’s 1½ to 2½ 
percent, and the way you thought about it was when you’re at or near full employment, you 
actually want to be between 2 and 2½ percent, realizing that when you’re at the lower bound it’s 
going to be hard to prevent inflation from drifting down, and you’re probably going to be 1½ to 2 
percent. And so a range actually gives you the flexibility to try to, on average, get to 2 percent 
without having some of the time inconsistency problems that would otherwise occur. But 
whether you think that’s a good idea or a bad idea is, in part, dependent on whether you are a 
“symmetric” person or a “balanced approach” person. 
So I do think maybe thinking a little bit more about the current framework would help us 
think about what that future framework ought to be, because we do get different policy 
conclusions from the exact same kind of set of facts with the current framework. I thought that 
might engender a few hands. [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Well, I think that’s a very constructive comment, but I think 
our current Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy is inconsistent. I 
think there’s a logical breakdown that we currently have, and that’s why the statement you just 
made couldn’t be true, because some people are reading the right column and some people are 
reading the left column. I think it’s a logical kind of a problem, and it’s because of the lower 
bound. So I don’t think it’s about choosing which side. It’s that there’s an inconsistency in the 
statement. 
We had the range debate before, a long time ago. I do think, when you talk about time 
inconsistency, it isn’t solved by changing the words. It’s solved by the willingness of those who 
say what you just said—that, in good times, we’re going to shoot for inflation at the high end of 

the range. The Committee would carry out policy consistent with that and do that, and then 
knowing that when you’re in recession or periods of negative shocks, there could be the low end. 
I think that’s really the debate we’re having. Would this Committee commit to shooting 
for the upper end of the range during expansion, like in a time, conceptually, like today? And I 
think that’s really what we’re talking about. Calling it a “range” doesn’t solve that problem. 
What we have to have is very clear communication amongst ourselves and externally that that’s 
what we would mean by the range, and that’s the same, in ways, as some versions of average 
inflation targeting. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. I’m happy to weigh in on this a little bit. I think the range debate 
comes down to the question of whether the range indicates a range of inaction. So if you listen 
to Governor Quarles very articulately saying, “Well, you can’t measure inflation that closely 
anyway, so why are you trying to split hairs over a tenth on the inflation range?” then I’m very 
sympathetic with it, and I think everybody would be very sympathetic with it. But if you have a 
range, everyone’s going to know what the midpoint in the range is. So are you saying you’re not 
going to take any action if inflation is in that range, or are you saying you’re going to take some 
kind of mitigated action or lighter action, which I think is implicit? 
But you’ve already got quadratic loss functions there. So you’re probably not going to do 
very much at 1.9 percent, whereas when you’re at 1.4 percent, more alarm bells might go off. Or 
at 2.6 percent, alarm bells might go off, and you say, “We’ve got to get more aggressive here.” 
At least my reading of the literature on this is that maybe it doesn’t help that much to say things 
are in a range versus a point, because you’ve got these issues about what you would do inside the 
range, just like John was saying. 

To me, the biggest issue is, is the Committee or are any of these central banks around the 
world going to be complacent about low inflation in an environment in which these countries 
have gotten stuck in these low interest rate, low-inflation worlds? And I think there was a 
time—I think there were people on this Committee who felt that the only goal was to keep 
inflation low, and that inflation’s a teapot—the only problem that you could ever face is that the 
teapot boils over, and so the only thing that you’re trying to prevent is inflation from getting high 
and variable the way it was in the 1970s. 
And that informed a lot of central bank thinking for decades, but, boy, the past decade 
has turned that around. And as Chair Powell just said, the problem of our times is that there’s a 
problem on the low side as well, and you can’t be complacent about low inflation or you might 
get stuck in this trap. So I guess that’s a long-winded answer, but I don’t think that the “zones” 
argument is going to solve this problem. I think it’s very much a commitment issue, like John 
has said. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. I was really struck by the point that President Evans made on, what if 
you just assume there’s no Phillips curve? What do we do? And part of the reason I was struck 
by that is, I do think there’s an implicit assumption in a lot of the strategies that if we go low 
with the path of interest rates, it’ll drive inflation higher. And you could argue that—I’ll take 
Europe, but maybe Japan—they’ve gone low, really low, for a long time and haven’t driven 
inflation higher. So I’d love to find some way, as we do this conversation, just to explore those 
stories in a little more depth, because I know it was a thought experiment, but it’s a really 
powerful thought experiment, and I think we ought to think about what we’re doing in the 
context of that experiment. 

CHAIR POWELL. Let me add, I was also struck by that and by President Bullard’s 
comment that the effective lower bound can be a bit of a roach motel. It’s an unstable 
equilibrium, in a way—after an amount of time, it just affects thinking. More thinking on that 
front. Any other comments in this impromptu segment? [No response] Okay, well— 
MR. BULLARD. I’m sorry, I do. I don’t know if we could follow up a little bit on 
Governor Brainard’s comment that we have our Statement of Longer-Run Goals and Monetary 
Policy Strategy, but then at times we have supplemented that with other types of statements. 
One was exit principles, and then revisions to the exit principles. Could we do something like 
that? And might that be a good way forward here, to provide a better summary of all of the 
thinking of the Committee and maybe better guide expectations about what we would do in a 
future downturn? 
I’m not saying I know the pros and cons of this, but is this something we could think 
about and consider? Because otherwise we’re going to get down to the Statement of Longer-Run 
Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, as I was saying in my comments, and it’s just going to be a 
few words or a few phrases, and that seems like a very, very tough order—to summarize a huge 
body of literature and then bring it down to just a few words in a long-run statement. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Yes, I agree with that. I actually think we should rename this 
document—take the word “strategy” out and put “philosophy” in. “Strategy” is super 
complicated. It’s got a lot of detail. It’s got a lot of context. I thought the goal of this was to 
present something that was easily accessible for regular people—it wasn’t going to get their eyes 
to glaze over in all of the details. I think the approach taken, the internal conflicts 
notwithstanding, is the right approach for that type of document. And then it may be that we 

have a separate series of documents that detail each of the tools that we might use and then have 
another section where they interact and all that kind of stuff. I think that gives us the space and 
the latitude to be as thorough as we need to be to try to articulate what we’re doing in a 
clear way. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. First off, I’d like to thank President Rosengren for explaining why the 
flags are so important. [Laughter] More insightful comments I wish I had made myself. 
I would like to say that I’d like to live in the world that Governor Quarles described. I 
would have no difficulty with either of those situations either or even flipping a coin between 
whether or not it’s 1.7 percent inflation for the next 20 years or 2.3 percent for the next 20 years. 
What worries me and, I think, is surrounding so much of our conversation is, what 
happens in the event where something pushes us into the other situation? And the way I think 
about this struggle is, how do we demonstrate to the public how we will behave during some 
future period that we have not collectively, as a Committee, acted upon? And I think previous 
Committees struggled with that in 2010 and 2011 and 2012, and that’s when we find out what 
we’re really thinking about, to the extent that we can lay the groundwork to make those decisions 
better or do that. But it’s not the 1.9 percent inflation per se that bothers me so much, it’s the 
implication for our future actions. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Just on those points—and it may be heresy to say, but—I think the 
public understands the risk of high inflation, I think the public understands why not being at full 
employment is bad—they understand why both of those are negative. I don’t think the public 
understands why 1.6 percent inflation is dangerous versus 2 percent. I think we may need to do 

more. I think we understand, around this table—although there are different points of view—the 
risks. I think we’ve lost people, maybe a little bit more than we realize, explaining the risks of 
these persistent misses on the low side—I think we can do more to explain it, but I think we’d be 
well served to explain it as we roll out this new framework and explain our reaction function, 
because I think we’ve lost people a little bit on that. That’s my observation. 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay, great. Thanks, everyone, for a great round of comments. All 
right. And now to the Desk presentation. Lorie, over to you. 
MS. LOGAN.3 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be referring to the handout titled 
“Material for Briefing on Financial Developments and Open Market Operations.” 
Over the intermeeting period, financial market developments reflected shifts in 
expectations for monetary policy in response to central bank communications, trade 
developments, and U.S. economic data that were seen as pointing to continued 
moderate growth and low but stable inflation. As shown in the shaded area in 
panel 1, U.S. equity prices rose over the period to reach new nominal highs. Policy-
sensitive interest rates, with the two-year Treasury yield shown here, experienced 
some volatility but, on net, were little changed. 
In my briefing I’ll explore three questions, outlined in panel 2, before turning to a 
discussion of money markets. First, how have market participants’ expectations for 
monetary policy evolved in the United States and abroad? Second, how have those 
shifts in policy expectations affected financial conditions? And, third, how have 
market participants’ views of global risks changed? 
Starting with the first question, since the previous meeting, there has been a 
significant convergence in policy rate expectations. Panels 3 and 4 depict the 
distribution of Desk survey respondents’ modal forecasts for the target rate following 
this meeting and at the end of this year. In panel 3, the blue bars show that nearly all 
respondents from the July Desk surveys have a modal forecast of a 25 basis point cut 
at this meeting, a substantial shift from the June surveys, shown in red, when a 
significant majority had a modal forecast for no change. Nonetheless, survey 
respondents note some residual uncertainty about the degree of easing at this meeting 
and, on average, put nearly a 20 percent probability on a 50 basis point reduction in 
the target range. 
Survey respondents’ modal target rate projections for year-end 2019 have also 
coalesced, as shown in panel 4. In the June surveys, again shown in the red bars, 
views were split almost evenly between those expecting two cuts in 2019 and those 
expecting none. In the July surveys, shown in blue, roughly two-thirds of survey 
 
3 The materials used by Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 3). 

respondents have modal projections for two 25 basis point cuts to the target range 
in 2019. 
On panel 5, while most respondents now have similar modal projections for the 
target rate at the end of this year, a fair amount of uncertainty remains in respondents’ 
views. The average of respondents’ probability distributions shows substantial 
weight on a range of outcomes. Some survey respondents note that risks associated 
with trade developments and the global economic outlook are influencing the 
uncertainty around their forecasts. Some also cite a perceived divergence in views 
among Committee members, as well as a shifting interpretation of the Committee’s 
overall reaction function. Respondents cite these latter two issues as influencing their 
rating of the effectiveness of FOMC communications, which fell from the June to 
July Desk surveys. 
Current market pricing appears broadly consistent with the survey “takeaways.” 
Federal funds futures imply 30 basis points of decline in the effective rate following 
this meeting, potentially reflecting some possibility of a cut larger than 25 basis 
points. Federal fund futures imply 46 basis points of cumulative declines by the 
September FOMC meeting and 67 basis points by year-end. So although the rate path 
implied by the median of survey modal forecasts has 50 basis points of total cuts 
through the year-end, as noted in panel 4, market pricing suggests some possibility of 
more extensive cuts and, to some degree, may reflect negative risk premiums. 
One area of the survey in which views do not appear to have coalesced is around 
expectations for near-term balance sheet policy. As shown in panel 6, of the 
respondents who expect a rate cut this week, around 40 percent expect the Committee 
to stop portfolio runoff at this meeting. Some of those respondents attributed their 
views to communications by FOMC members who were perceived as expressing a 
preference to avoid balance sheet and interest rate policy working at “cross 
purposes.” Market participants almost universally noted that the direct economic 
effects of ending runoff at this meeting would be small. However, some noted that 
such a decision could have a policy-signaling effect, although they also noted the 
move would be interpreted in the context of other policy actions and communications. 
On this point, panel 7 on exhibit 2 summarizes survey respondents’ expectations 
for communications in the statement and press conference tomorrow. Respondents 
generally expect limited changes to the statement language. Most indicate 
expectations for the statement to continue to reference uncertainties around the 
outlook, and many expect it to indicate that the Committee will “closely monitor” 
incoming information and “act as appropriate.” In the press conference, some 
respondents expect the Chair to characterize any cut to the target range as 
precautionary in nature, in light of global risks to the outlook for the U.S. economy 
and low inflation. 
The recent moves in expectations for near-term domestic policy come amid a 
global shift toward more accommodative monetary policy. Panel 8 shows the GDP-
weighted average policy rate for the rest of the world. Market expectations of future 

policy rates have been declining since late last year. But actual policy rates have 
followed more recently. The central banks in Australia, Indonesia, Korea, Russia, 
South Africa, and Turkey are all easing over the past month, and a number of others 
are shifting to an easing bias. 
Market participants have been particularly focused on a perceived shift in stance 
from the ECB. At its meeting last week, the ECB Governing Council restored its 
easing bias for policy rates and further emphasized the symmetry of its inflation goal. 
It also tasked the staff with examining various easing options. This announcement 
reinforced widely held expectations for a 10 basis point cut to the deposit rate in 
September and a new round of asset purchases beginning in December. 
Nonetheless, market contacts continue to express some questions about how 
effective prospective easing measures will be at boosting inflation, particularly in the 
euro area. As shown in panel 9, while there has been a small uptick in far-forward 
inflation compensation in the United States and euro area, these measures remain near 
recent lows in the United States and near all-time lows in the euro area. 
I’ll now turn to my second question: How have these changes in policy 
expectations affected financial conditions? Many contacts note that expectations for 
more accommodative monetary policy globally, particularly from the FOMC and 
ECB, have played a strong role in supporting financial conditions and likely offset 
some of the imprint on the global growth outlook made by trade tensions and other 
risks. Panel 10 shows the rebound in global equity indexes that came alongside the 
more accommodative shifts in policy expectations in the United States and abroad 
this year. These indexes reached all-time highs over the intermeeting period. 
The shifts in policy expectations in the United States and abroad have also 
affected currency markets. Though the turn in FOMC policy expectations this year 
has led to some depreciation in the dollar, these pressures have been offset in part by 
further signs of weak growth and increased prospects for easing abroad as well as 
continuing positive U.S. yield differentials relative to other advanced foreign 
economies. As shown in panel 11, the trade-weighted dollar has fluctuated in a 
relatively narrow range so far this year after appreciating notably in 2018. 
Against this backdrop and amid a recent pickup in commentary on the dollar and 
other steps by the U.S. Administration, the possibility of U.S. foreign exchange 
intervention to weaken the dollar has emerged as a topic of discussion among 
investors. While intervention is generally characterized as unlikely and as not 
contributing to recent price action, the perceived probability of intervention has been 
rising, and market participants are highly attentive to this topic. 
I now turn to the third question: How have market participants’ views of global 
risks changed? Reduced concern among market participants about some proximate 
risks has also supported risk asset prices. Following the G-20 meeting in late June, 
some respondents to the Desk surveys pared back their modal forecasts for further 
escalation in U.S.–China trade tensions. Most survey respondents now expect that 

current tariffs will remain in place for some time, as shown in panel 12. The White 
House and the Congress also appear close to agreeing on a budget and debt ceiling 
deal. In addition, market participants noted that the rebound in the June employment 
report and June CPI, as well as stronger consumer demand in the second quarter, 
prompted a slight reassessment of the risks to the U.S. growth outlook. 
That all said, contacts continue to note that some significant downside risks 
remain. Survey respondents still see U.S.–China trade risks as skewed to the 
downside, and many of China’s longer-term challenges remain, with the recent 
restructuring of two small Chinese banks highlighting funding market vulnerabilities. 
Elsewhere, the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit has risen to perhaps its highest level, 
according to some contacts, with the pound sterling having depreciated notably since 
the appointment of the new British prime minister. This all leaves some contacts 
wondering if market participants are complacent about underlying risks or placing too 
much faith in central banks’ ability to address risks through accommodative policy. 
I’ll turn now to recent money market developments, summarized on panel 13 of 
your third exhibit, and conclude with two operational updates. Over the intermeeting 
period, money market rates were slightly more elevated, reflecting the continuation of 
a trend of higher rates relative to IOER. As shown in panel 14, the effective federal 
funds rate, shown as the dark blue diamond, averaged 5 basis points above IOER, and 
the secured overnight financing rate, or SOFR, averaged 9 basis points above IOER, 
shown by the pink diamond. 
Unsecured money market rates also displayed somewhat greater day-over-day 
variability. As shown in panel 15, the spreads of the effective federal funds rate and 
the median Eurodollar rate relative to the IOER rate have become more variable as 
rates have risen above IOER, with a notable pickup in daily changes since late March. 
The range of rates traded in unsecured markets within each day has also widened, as 
depicted in panel 16, which shows the average daily interquartile range of federal 
funds and Eurodollar trades relative to the median rate. 
Market participants have focused on two drivers of these dynamics. First, they 
have attributed fluctuations in the effective federal funds rate primarily to pass-
through from elevated repo rates. As shown in panel 17, the effective federal funds 
rate, shown in light blue, has tended to rise and fall with secured rates, shown here 
with SOFR in dark blue. This pass-through also contributed to the higher dispersion 
in unsecured rates within each day that I showed in panel 16, reflecting more 
competitive conditions in the morning when lenders have the option to allocate to 
repo followed by lower rates in the afternoon when lenders have fewer options. 
Market participants continue to attribute higher repo rates to the high level of 
Treasury security issuance in an environment of elevated dealer inventories of 
Treasury securities. These inventories, shown in panel 18, are concentrated mainly 
among a handful of primary dealers that are reportedly facilitating customer demand 
to acquire Treasury securities in an environment of expectations for declining yields. 

Second, market participants note that the gradual increase in unsecured rates is 
occurring against the backdrop of a long-run trend toward lower reserve balances. 
Over the intermeeting period, the level of reserves was little changed on net. 
However, it’s fluctuating around multiyear lows, and some market participants have 
made the association between the gradual increase in unsecured rates relative to the 
IOER rate and the declining reserves since SOMA redemptions began, as shown in 
panel 19. Panel 20 shows a longer-term trend in this relationship, with the level of 
reserves plotted against the spread between the effective federal funds rate and the 
IOER rate, broken into three time periods: January 2010 to September 2014, when 
the balance sheet was growing, in gray; September 2014 to October 2017, when the 
balance sheet was held constant, in red; and October 2017 to now, when the balance 
sheet has been declining, in dark blue—the same data as I showed in panel 19. 
Of course, these charts just show that the trends in reserves and the EFFR–IOER 
spread were coincident—other underlying drivers could be at work. For example, as 
I noted, during this recent period there were also sizable increases in Treasury debt 
issuance and associated upward pressure on bill yields and repo rates, which may 
have been contributing factors to the higher effective federal funds rate. Nonetheless, 
analyses conducted by staff at the Board and in the New York research department 
show a small but statistically significant negative relationship between changes in the 
spread between the volume-weighted average federal funds rate and the IOER rate 
and changes in reserve levels, which may provide some evidence of a modest slope in 
reserve demand at current levels. The presence of this small negative relationship, or 
“gentle slope,” is robust over recent years, even accounting for the potential influence 
of other factors, such as changes in repo rates. 
Panel 21, which we’ve shown variants of at previous meetings, depicts this 
relationship in a simple plot showing daily changes in the level of reserves against 
changes in the spread of the volume-weighted average federal funds rate to the IOER 
rate since October 2017. This chart and staff analysis use the volume-weighted 
average federal funds rate because it moves in smaller increments and is more 
sensitive than the effective federal funds rate, which is the median. These analyses 
suggest the slope is currently small—in the most recent data, it’s less than 1 basis 
point per $100 billion of reserves. 
As we look ahead, the level of reserves as projected in the light blue line in panel 
22 shows a decline to between $1.2 trillion and $1.3 trillion in December, the lowest 
reserve level since early 2011. Should the debt ceiling impasse be resolved this week, 
it’s expected to lead to a more gradual increase in bill issuance and TGA balance in 
the coming months than if the impasse had extended further. This has the effect of 
lowering forecasts of the level of reserves into September but smoothing the pace of 
reserve decline over the remainder of the year. Even with the expected more gradual 
increase in Treasury bill issuance and rise in the TGA through the third and fourth 
quarters, there is still likely to be modest upward pressure on bill yields and other 
money market rates over the coming months. 

These are just indicative forecasts and are subject to change. In fact, the 
Treasury’s refunding announcement late yesterday means we will likely be revising 
our projected year-end reserve level lower, as its guidance suggested $100 billion 
more in TGA balances than we had assumed in the forecast that I showed today. 
Conversely, were the Committee to conclude balance sheet runoff as of August 1, this 
would shift the schedule of projected reserve balances higher by about $70 billion, the 
difference in the projected redemptions of SOMA securities holdings. The red line in 
panel 22 shows the implication of this difference for reserve levels based on the 
forecast made before the Treasury’s refunding announcement late yesterday. 
Taking all of this together, the staff will continue to monitor the outlook closely 
for signs that rising repo rates or the ongoing decline in reserve levels are putting 
additional upward pressure on the effective federal funds rate or resulting in higher 
variability in the rate. 
Regarding operational updates, as noted at the previous meeting and as shown in 
panel 23, with Treasury yields remaining at lower levels and MBS prepayments 
remaining high, the Desk continued to reinvest agency MBS principal payments over 
the intermeeting period. Based on current market rates and prepayment forecasts, the 
Desk expects to continue to reinvest modest amounts over the coming months. 
Separately, as discussed in the memo circulated before this meeting, the Desk 
plans to resume CUSIP aggregation of SOMA holdings of Fannie Mae and Freddie 
Mac agency MBS to reduce administrative costs and operational complexity and 
expects to release a statement in August with details on the aggregation strategy. 
Finally, our plans for upcoming small-value exercises are summarized in the 
appendix. Thank you, Mr. Chair. That concludes my remarks, and we’d be happy to 
take questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Any questions for Lorie or Patricia? [No response] 
Seeing none, we need a vote to ratify the domestic open market operations conducted since the 
June meeting. Do I have a motion to approve? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. All in favor, aye. [Chorus of ayes] Thanks very much. Next we’ll 
turn to the review of the economic and financial situation. David, would you like to start? 

MR. LEBOW.4 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be referring to the handout titled 
“Material for Briefing on the U.S. Outlook,” and there’s also a separate handout 
showing this morning’s data on PCE prices, which I’ll come to in a few minutes. 
Panel 1 summarizes the near-term GDP outlook. As you can see in row 1, the 
BEA’s advance estimate for second-quarter GDP growth was 2.1 percent, which was 
a little below our Tealbook estimate of 2.5 percent. Friday’s release also included 
historical revisions to the GDP accounts. And though real GDP growth was about 
unrevised, on average, over the past five years, growth was revised down in 2018. In 
2019:Q1, GDP growth was unrevised at 3.1 percent. 
Despite the modest downward surprise in second-quarter GDP growth, we saw 
Friday’s report as a small positive for our outlook on net. The downward GDP 
surprise occurred in spending categories that typically provide relatively little signal 
about future growth, and the report also included a sizable upward revision to 
household income so far this year, which led us to nudge up our projection for 
consumer spending in the second half. Thus, we now project real GDP growth of 
1.9 percent in the second half, a bit above the Tealbook projection. 
We continue to think that GDP growth in the first half of this year was boosted by 
transitory factors, and we project a slowdown in the second half as these dissipate. 
The spending components contributing to that slowdown can be seen in panel 2. As 
you can see from the gray portion of the bars, government spending made an 
unusually large contribution to growth in the first half, as there was a surge in 
construction spending by state and local governments. We expect this spending to 
ease off, although, admittedly, the timing is uncertain. We also expect inventory 
investment, shown in yellow, to slow further from a level that is still somewhat 
elevated. However, as shown in blue, growth in private domestic final purchases—
that is, consumer spending, business investment, and residential investment—is not 
projected to slow in the second half. We do expect business investment to weaken 
further, as we discussed in a box in the Tealbook. However, we anticipate that the 
slowing in investment will be largely offset by a pickup in housing activity, driven by 
the decline in mortgage interest rates since late last year. And as I noted, we have 
nudged up our projection for consumer spending in the second half, but we still 
expect PCE growth to be about the same as its average pace in the first half. In 2020, 
not shown, we still project GDP growth to remain a little above potential and then to 
slow a little further in 2021. Thus, our baseline outlook for real activity remains 
generally favorable. It is also a little stronger than in the June Tealbook, with the 
upward revision mostly reflecting the incoming data on spending and income. 
The recent labor market data have remained solid, though the pace of 
improvement has slowed relative to last year. BLS’s estimate of private payroll 
employment, the red line in panel 3, rebounded in June after a weak reading in May, 
and the three-month moving average of private job gains stood at 156,000 in June—
down noticeably from 2018’s average pace of 215,000 jobs per month but still above 
 
4 The materials used by Mr. Lebow are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). 

the pace to keep labor utilization constant. This stepdown is also evident from the 
blue line in the panel, which plots a series that pools BLS’s estimate of private payroll 
gains with our translation of the firm-level data collected by the payroll processor 
ADP. As you can see from the black line, the available ADP data for July suggest 
that private payrolls rose 135,000 this month. We get BLS data for July this Friday. 
Looking ahead, we expect payroll employment growth to slow a little further over the 
second half of the year as output decelerates. 
Panel 4 shows our medium-term projection for the unemployment rate. The 
picture should look familiar. With actual output expected to outpace potential 
through next year, the unemployment rate edges down a bit further next year and 
remains about 1 percentage point below our estimate of its natural rate. This path is a 
touch lower than in the June Tealbook. 
Your next page summarizes the inflation outlook. But first, please turn to the 
separate handout titled “Material for PCE Price Index Update,” which summarizes 
this morning’s data on monthly PCE prices.
5 Over the 12 months ending in June, 
overall PCE prices rose 1.4 percent and core PCE prices rose 1.6 percent; both figures 
were a little below our Tealbook estimates. The surprise was in the nonmarket 
portion of these prices, from which we generally take little signal for future inflation. 
If you return to panel 5 in the main set of exhibits, you will see that the dashed 
line shows the three-month change in core PCE prices. Please note that this panel 
does not reflect this morning’s data. It presents our estimates at the time of the 
Tealbook, but the basic picture will be the same. The dot labeled “March” illustrates 
the very low core inflation readings over the first three months of the year, which then 
rebounded in the subsequent three months to June. With this morning’s data, the 
three-month change to June was 2.5 percent, a little below the value plotted here but 
still quite consistent with the view that core inflation has been rebounding from 
transitorily low readings. 
Panel 6 presents our current post-Tealbook inflation forecast, taking into account 
the revised quarterly BEA data that were released last Friday. In the Tealbook, our 
projection for core inflation this year was a little above the June projection, but as you 
can see from the solid and dotted black lines, our projection is now back where it was 
in June. We now expect core inflation of 1.8 percent this year, edging up to 
1.9 percent in 2020 and 2021. Overall, PCE price inflation, the red line, is expected 
to come in a little lower than core both this year and next, as projected declines in 
crude oil prices feed through into consumer energy prices. 
Panel 7 shows our decomposition of core PCE inflation, the black line, into the 
contributions of various fundamental determinants. The relatively flat contour of core 
inflation over the medium term largely reflects our view that underlying inflation, the 
gray bars—which we define as the rate of PCE price inflation that would prevail in 
the absence of slack, idiosyncratic relative price changes, or supply shocks—will 
 
5 The materials used by Mr. Lebow are appended to this transcript (appendix 5). 

remain constant over the next few years at 1.8 percent. High rates of resource 
utilization, the red bars, are expected to put upward pressure on core inflation. The 
contribution is small, however, and is partly offset after this year by a negative 
contribution from relative import prices, the green bars. 
We interpret the apparent stability of underlying inflation in recent years as 
reflecting well-anchored long-run inflation expectations on the part of wage- and 
price-setters. We therefore closely monitor various expectations measures, including 
those obtained from surveys of households, professional forecasters, and financial 
market participants. Such expectations measures are included in several of the 
models we use to inform our judgmental estimate of underlying inflation. 
One such survey-based measure—the median value, given in the Michigan 
survey, of the expected rate of price change over the next 5 to 10 years—is plotted as 
the blue line in panel 8. As you know, this series has been running near 2.5 percent 
for the past few years, after having drifted lower from 2014 to 2016. The series has 
been a little more volatile this year, and the preliminary reading for July moved up to 
2.6 percent from 2.3 percent in June. 
In addition to the median, the chart shows the 25th and 75th percentiles of this 
distribution. I include these for two reasons. First, as a reminder that for all the 
emphasis on the median as a summary measure, there is a reasonably wide 
distribution of households’ responses to questions about expected inflation. And, 
second, to illustrate that as the median declined a few tenths between 2014 and 2016, 
the 75th percentile of the distribution declined more notably, from roughly 
4½ percent to 3½ percent. Fewer respondents report that they expect relatively high 
inflation rates of 5 percent or higher, and that’s bringing down the high end of the 
distribution. 
Knowing what to make of these developments is more difficult. The behavior of 
inflation leads us to estimate that underlying inflation has remained roughly stable, 
notwithstanding the decline in inflation compensation from financial markets or the 
decline in the Michigan median and also notwithstanding the larger decline in the 
75th percentile shown here. Perhaps none of these measures adequately captures the 
inflation expectations that are relevant for wage and price determination, or perhaps 
the observed changes in expectations have not been large enough to show through in 
actual inflation. But we do see the decline in some of these expectations measures as 
pointing to a downside risk for the inflation outlook. And, at a minimum, we can say 
that we are not seeing evidence of the increase in inflation expectations that might 
lead underlying inflation to move higher and so be more consistent with the 
Committee’s inflation objective. Shaghil will now continue our presentation. 
MR. AHMED.
6 Thanks, David. I’ll be referring to the handout titled “Material 
for Briefing on the International Outlook.” The dog days of summer are here, and 
 
6 The materials used by Mr. Ahmed are appended to this transcript (appendix 6). 

they bring an outlook for the global economy that calls for cloudy skies with some 
possibility of sudden thunderstorms. 
My presentation revolves around two key questions about this forecast. First, are 
the skies clearing up—are we seeing signs that foreign economic growth is coming 
out of its soft patch? Second, what are the chances for flash floods—have downside 
risks, particularly those associated with trade policy developments, increased since 
your previous meeting? Our short answer to the first question is that although there 
are signs in some countries of a pickup in growth, the evidence is not yet robust that 
the foreign economies are out of their soft patch. On the second, though downside 
risks have not intensified, they haven’t subsided much from their elevated level 
either. I will now turn to the details. 
Indicators suggest a pickup in GDP growth abroad in the second quarter, to 
2 percent at an annual rate from 1½ percent in the first, as shown in the left panel of 
your first exhibit. This growth is below the potential rate, and we expect it to remain 
so for the rest of the year, but it should gradually pick up to about its potential pace of 
2½ percent next year. 
But several considerations give us some pause. First, indicators on the whole 
have come in a bit weaker than expected, and we have revised down a touch near-
term aggregate foreign growth. The right panel shows the evolution of the staff 
forecast over a longer period. As you can see, our outlook for the foreign economies 
for this year is still significantly below what we were predicting at the start of the 
year, especially for the emerging market economies. Second, in your next exhibit, the 
second-quarter estimated pickup is primarily due to improvements in Canada and 
Mexico, two economies with a high weight in our U.S. export-weighted foreign 
aggregate. A GDP-weighted aggregate would not show a pickup. Moreover, the 
indicators from Mexico are by no means suggesting a red-hot pace of that economy 
but rather a turnaround to modest growth from a small contraction at the start of the 
year. In several other key regions, such as China, the euro area, and the United 
Kingdom, we estimate that growth has declined from its first-quarter jump. Third, the 
malaise in global manufacturing, shown in the right panel, continues, while services 
are still performing relatively better. 
In addition, as can be seen from the left panel of your next exhibit, although 
inflation bumped up temporarily in the second quarter, in part as a result of higher 
energy prices, underlying inflation pressures remain low in the advanced foreign 
economies. Specifically, for the euro area, as Lorie discussed, inflation compensation 
readings are near record lows. With subdued inflation and concerns about growth 
persisting, foreign central bankers have more reasons to sweat than just this summer’s 
heatwave. As shown to the right, consistent with their recent “dovish” 
communications, we have revised down our policy rate paths in the case of several 
AFEs. At its July 25 meeting, the ECB left its deposit rate unchanged but modified 
its forward-guidance language to signal potential rate cuts and said that it would 
consider resuming asset purchases. Board staff expect the ECB to lower its deposit 
rate 20 basis points to negative 0.6 percent at its next meeting and to resume large-

scale asset purchases later in the year. In emerging market economies, too, the 
rhetoric has turned more “dovish” and, as Lorie noted, several central banks have 
loosened policy. It is noteworthy that we now see it taking more monetary 
accommodation in the foreign economies to achieve growth rates for 2020 that for 
several economies are lower than what we wrote down for that year at the start of the 
year. 
As shown on the next page, EMEs appear to be benefiting from expectations of 
more accommodative monetary policies in the advanced economies, which have 
helped keep financial conditions in many of these economies benign. The scatterplot 
on the left shows that since mid-May, many EMEs have seen their currencies 
appreciate against the dollar, and these appreciations have been larger for those 
economies that rank as relatively more vulnerable according to our cross-country 
EME vulnerability index. As shown to the right, EME credit spreads have also 
narrowed since May and flows to EME-dedicated funds have improved, with flows to 
bond funds turning positive again. Were it not for recent declines in expected policy 
rate paths in advanced economies, especially the United States, we would likely be 
revising down EME growth more. 
Regarding global risks in your next exhibit, a continuing headwind for monetary 
policy has been trade tensions. These tensions are registering somewhat lower 
readings on the thermostat. For now, the U.S.–Mexico front is relatively calm after 
the immediate threat of U.S. tariffs on Mexico was dropped in early June. In 
addition, at the G-20 meeting in late June, Presidents Trump and Xi agreed to restart 
trade negotiations, which actually got under way today, and further U.S. tariff 
increases on imports from China have been indefinitely postponed. But as indicated 
in the chart, even after some decline in our trade policy uncertainty index from its 
latest spike, the index remains high and ongoing concerns about trade policy could 
continue to impede investment and activity. Moreover, there could be a reescalation 
of trade tensions and further increases in tariffs, including on autos. 
On the next page, how have the two recent waves of trade policy uncertainty—in 
the first half of last year and in May and June of this year—affected economic 
activity, and how could the effects play out over the next couple of years? Certainly, 
as can be seen in the chart, the heightened trade policy uncertainty has been 
accompanied by a slowdown in both global trade and global production. The effects 
of trade policy uncertainty, however, are difficult to disentangle from other factors, 
such as the role of the global tech cycle and country-specific factors that are 
restraining global demand, including China’s deleveraging, complications resulting 
from tighter emissions standards for new motor vehicles in Europe, and uncertainties 
associated with Brexit. But we keep trying, and, in the next exhibit, I present our 
latest evidence on this. 
My colleagues, Matteo Iacoviello and some others, have estimated a monthly 
structural vector autoregression, or VAR, model that includes industrial production, 
trade policy uncertainty, the dollar, world imports, stock prices, financial spreads, and 
actual tariffs using data from 1985 to the present. They map the estimated effects on 

industrial production of trade policy uncertainty obtained from this model into GDP 
effects. 
The three panels in the exhibit show how much the two waves of trade policy 
uncertainty since the beginning of 2018 have held back GDP so far and are expected 
to over the forecast period, according to the VAR model. The black lines show that 
trade tensions are estimated to subtract about 1 percent from GDP in the advanced 
foreign and emerging market economies as well as in the United States. The blue 
lines isolate the effects from just the first wave of the increase in trade policy 
uncertainty in the first half of 2018. The estimated drag on output due to trade policy 
uncertainty builds up over time; the model predicts that the effects from the first wave 
would be reaching their troughs just about now, and that the new wave in May and 
June will have further knock-on effects in coming periods. The lags in the effects can 
help account for the puzzle we have been wrestling with—that while trade policy 
uncertainty featured prominently as a concern in surveys, we didn’t see material 
direct effects on trade and investment until more recently. Although the exact 
magnitude of these effects remains uncertain, these results highlight both the 
likelihood that trade policy uncertainty played an important role in the recent 
manufacturing slowdown and the probability that the adverse effects have not fully 
played out yet. 
Our “Global Investment Slump” alternative scenario in the Tealbook, presented in 
the last exhibit, explores a more severe variant of this possibility using our SIGMA 
model. Specifically, in this scenario, we assume that the unprecedented level of trade 
policy uncertainty generates hits to consumer and business confidence both here and 
abroad that set in motion a global investment slump and reduce productivity. Safe-
haven flows lead to a substantial appreciation of the dollar. U.S. real GDP growth 
falls about 1.5 percentage points below the baseline, as does foreign GDP growth. 
And, with U.S. core PCE inflation remaining below 2 percent, the federal funds rate 
declines. 
All told, trade policy uncertainty continues to be an important source of downside 
risk to the global economy. But although trade tensions have been the talk of the 
summer, I would like to end my presentation with just a one-word preview of the fall: 
Brexit. [Laughter] Thank you. Beth will now continue our presentation. 
MS. KLEE.
7 That’s the one-word start to my presentation, actually. [Laughter] 
Thank you, Shaghil. I’ll be referring to the “Material for Briefing on Financial 
Stability Developments.” You received the staff’s assessment of financial stability—
affectionately known as “the QS”—a couple of weeks ago. As always, the staff from 
across the System contributed to the assessment. We continue to view overall 
vulnerabilities facing the financial system as “moderate.” High business borrowing 
and high-ish asset valuations continue to coexist with low household borrowing and 
resilient financial institutions. Separately, we dug into financial market liquidity 
 
7 The materials used by Ms. Klee are appended to this transcript (appendix 7). 

conditions and found some evidence of increased fragility in at least a couple of 
markets. I’ll address these areas in four parts. 
First, asset valuation pressures are “notable,” which in our taxonomy means a 
notch below “elevated.” The top panel of your first exhibit shows an index of overall 
asset valuation pressures and risk appetite constructed by the staff to summarize a 
wide range of indicators. We’ve used this index for several years now, and its current 
reading suggests valuations in the upper part of their historical distribution. This 
picture broadly echoes the staff’s judgmental assessment. For the year and a half 
before the market turmoil in late 2018, our index was near its 90th percentile, and we 
assessed valuation pressures to be “elevated.” When pressures eased somewhat late 
last year, we downgraded our assessment to “notable,” and it remains there today. 
As shown in the middle-left panel, Treasury term premiums are now negative by 
many measures, which has put upward pressure on prices in a range of markets. As a 
result, as shown to the right, corporate bond yields are near the bottom of their 
distribution of the past 20 years, and equity prices, which Lorie showed, have reached 
new peaks. Real estate markets have also shown some signs of heat. As shown in the 
bottom-left panel, commercial real estate prices remain sky-high, while residential 
property price-to-rent ratios, which aren’t shown, remain a touch above trend. 
Because the high levels of prices is importantly due to low Treasury yields, risk 
premiums are not generally compressed. For example, as shown in the bottom right, 
the staff estimate of the equity risk premium is around the bottom third of its 
distribution, and risk premiums in corporate bond and other markets aren’t very low. 
In other words, we have a configuration of elevated asset prices that appear to be 
supported by low Treasury yields—at least for now. 
Second, business borrowing is hot, while household borrowing is not. As shown 
in the top-left panel of your second exhibit, gross debt to assets of corporations is 
high. The most recent observations are indicated with dots because there was an 
accounting change implemented in the first quarter that leaves businesses looking 
even more levered than before. That said, the picture wasn’t looking good even 
before this accounting change brought these additional leases onto firms’ balance 
sheets. 
As shown to the right, institutional leveraged loans generally targeted for larger 
firms, the red area, and private credit for midsized firms, the yellow, green, and blue 
areas, continue to expand. We’re going to focus first on the $1.2 trillion of leveraged 
loans. We know that for 40 percent of borrowers of newly issued loans, debt is more 
than six times earnings, representing a new record high. This peak exceeds that of the 
credit cycle just before the financial crisis and suggests that investor appetite for 
holding leveraged loans continues to climb. Focusing on the $900 billion in private 
credit, we know less about these loans. Anecdotal reports suggest that growth in 
private credit represents some migration of intermediation to nonbanks, as these 
borrowers would likely have depended on bank financing in years past. In contrast to 
business debt, household balances, which aren’t shown, have continued to grow about 

in line with nominal GDP. The moderate increases we’ve seen, on net, continue to 
accrue to households with very high credit scores. 
Third, financial leverage and funding risk are both low but rising. Banks continue 
to maintain strong capital positions, and results of the Federal Reserve’s 2019 stress 
tests suggest that large banks should be able to withstand a severely adverse 
downturn. However, there is some indication that bank leverage might increase over 
the next couple of years. For example, payouts at the largest banks are expected to be 
more than 100 percent of earnings this year and next. In addition, as shown in the 
middle-left panel, some G-SIBs have announced medium-term targets that imply 
declines in capital ratios of about 100 to 300 basis points from current levels. 
Regarding the nonbank sector, we took a close look this round at Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac. Our assessment is that systemic vulnerabilities created by these GSEs 
are low to moderate, and the vulnerability of the GSEs to financial or macroeconomic 
shocks is low. Importantly, this latter assessment relies on the agencies’ 
conservatorship. For example, as shown to the right, the GSEs are required by their 
regulator to run the Federal Reserve’s severely adverse scenario through their own 
models and compute the resulting capital needs; that’s shown by the brighter red line. 
These are estimated to be less than the available remaining draws of these institutions, 
which is the blue line, or, indeed, for comparison, the cumulative draws since 2009, 
which is the maroon line. That said, even the modest capital needs under this recent 
stress-test scenario swamp the GSEs’ own retained capital of about $3 billion each. 
In other parts of the nonbank sector, as shown in the bottom-left panel, available 
data on hedge fund leverage suggest a snapback to high levels following a temporary 
depression in late 2018. The exposures of dealers to hedge funds in the CDS market 
are becoming increasingly concentrated, with a few hedge funds accounting for a 
large share of these exposures. 
Separately, as shown to the right, outstanding balances in prime funds are starting 
to creep higher. Although current levels are certainly low relative to those seen 
before the SEC reform, the growth suggests emerging vulnerabilities associated with 
these funds and warrants continued monitoring. Inflows into prime funds are mostly 
into retail funds, which we believe are less susceptible to runs than their institutional 
counterparts. But the inflows are occurring against a backdrop of some expansion of 
money fund alternative vehicles, which have fragile structures and are used by 
institutional investors. 
Fourth, market liquidity is, overall, in good shape, although with some caveats. 
You’ll remember that the market volatility experienced in a couple of episodes in 
2018 was accompanied by anecdotes about illiquid trading conditions, and we 
promised to look into it further. We made good on our promise, and we come to you 
this round with the first part of our planned analysis, with more to come. 
The black line in the top panel of your third exhibit plots a composite index of 
Treasury market illiquidity, which incorporates standard measures such as bid-ask 

spreads and market depth. It goes up when liquidity gets “bad” or “thin” or 
“illiquid.” The red line plots implied volatility for the Treasury securities market. It 
goes up when volatility goes up. Relative to history, the current level suggests that 
liquidity in the Treasury securities market is about “as good as it gets” and responds 
little to increased volatility. 
The equity futures market, while, generally speaking, still a highly liquid market, 
tells a different story. As shown in the middle panel, the illiquidity index for equity 
futures was quite elevated in early and late 2018, even compared with volatile times 
over the past 14 years. In addition, the illiquidity index in the equity futures market 
has become more sensitive to market volatility. In particular, even though the market 
volatility in late 2018 wasn’t extreme, equity market liquidity deteriorated to levels 
not seen since the financial crisis. 
Markets with fragile liquidity are more prone to a flash event, defined as a big 
change in prices that is at least partially reversed in a very short period of time. As 
shown in the bottom panel, flash events in the equity futures market were more 
frequent in 2018 than in any year since the crisis. This increased frequency coincides 
with principal trading firms coming to center stage in these markets, as liquidity 
provision is concentrated in only a few of these firms. This concentration may lead 
liquidity to evaporate in stressful periods: If even one of these firms abruptly 
withdraws, liquidity drops substantially, and a modest sell order may cause a sudden 
and outsized drop in prices. 
The memo giving our analysis goes into more depth about market liquidity, 
including an exploration of foreign exchange and corporate bond markets. In general, 
liquidity may have become a little more fragile in FX in recent years, while bond 
market liquidity hasn’t changed much. However, there’s still a lot we don’t know, 
and so we, as well as other agencies, will continue to monitor developments. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. My colleagues and I are happy to answer your questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Questions for our briefers before we have an opportunity 
for comment on financial stability? President Daly. 
MS. DALY. This question is for David. I just want a clarification, more than anything—
if we take your chart 4 on the unemployment rate, and the gap implied by the natural rate relative 
to current unemployment—is that related to the calculation in chart 7 of the decomposition and 
the influence of slack on the inflation realizations? 
MR. LEBOW. Yes, exactly. 

MS. DALY. Okay. So if that’s the case, then what if you—so these are related, but not 
completely the same question. So if you took a different approach to calculating the natural 
rate—something simple, saying “We’ve missed for so many years that maybe we don’t have 
everything in our model,” and you reduce this gap quite a lot just from that, what would happen 
to this red? I don’t know what the exact coefficient on your Phillips curve is, but here’s what 
I’m worried about, and I wanted to just have you comment on that. If you think underlying 
inflation is 1.8 percent and the other factors are dragging it down, then the disappearance of this 
red component, because we’ve got the wrong gap, poses a real risk to inflation that isn’t featured 
in this. It seems modest, but we’re talking about tenths. And so I just want you to maybe talk 
about the risk assessment there and what this would imply. 
MR. LEBOW. So our estimates of underlying inflation and our estimates of the natural 
rate are not unrelated. My colleague Chris Nekarda showed, in a Board briefing within the past 
couple of months, a model of his where these two are estimated jointly, and there is a 
relationship. 
If you would impose on the model a lower natural rate so that there’s less labor market 
tightness, as you’re saying, then the model would generate—I hope I don’t say this backward— 
a higher estimate of underlying inflation. In other words, if the tight labor market is not holding 
up inflation, then something else has to be. And it would come up with a higher estimate of 
underlying inflation. 
Now, his model kind of prefers a configuration such as we have in our baseline outlook. 
In part, that has to do with how much the model wants its estimate of the natural rate to have 
declined over the past decade, given what it sees about demographics and so on. But, yes, these 
are related, as you’re saying. 

MS. DALY. So is the right way to think about this that discussing what’s in chart 4 
doesn’t really change the projection of inflation, it just changes the composition of whether you 
think it’s coming from underlying inflation or from the gray versus the red? That’s what I 
thought the Nekarda piece would say—it’s trying to figure out which component to allocate it to, 
but the underlying picture is roughly the same. 
MR. LEBOW. I think that’s right. I mean, I wouldn’t want to assert that, quantitatively, 
it would have no effect, but it certainly goes in that direction. And, as you see, the effect of labor 
market slack or a tight labor market in our inflation projection is not large. 
MS. DALY. The reason I’m asking this question and pressing this point is, this seems 
implausible that we missed by this much for so long. If it has a material effect on what your 
inflation projections are, that’s useful to talk about. If it doesn’t, then we can continue to look at 
this picture. I guess that’s what I was trying to assess. 
MR. LEBOW. I’ll also mention, we had a box in the Tealbook that you probably saw, 
which does a simple calculation, saying— 
MS. DALY. I saw that. 
MR. LEBOW. —given our estimate of underlying inflation, how low would the 
unemployment rate have to be according to our Phillips curve to get you to 2 percent? 
MS. DALY. So, 3.4 percent. 
MR. LEBOW. Yes, 3.4 percent. 
MS. DALY. Okay, thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thinking about our conversation that we 
had about the framework—and I think it was Vice Chair Williams who talked about trying to 

determine, are these cyclical trends that we’re seeing in asset markets or are these longer-term 
trends? I can imagine a low-r* world. I can imagine a world of high asset prices, because 
you’re discounting cash flows with the lower discount rate. I can also imagine a world, over the 
long term, of corporations taking on a lot more leverage just because debt is cheap. I’m just 
curious—as you all look at the trends you’re seeing in asset markets in America, if you look at 
Japan, are we seeing the same trends? Are we seeing high stock prices? Are we seeing high 
corporate leverage because they’ve been in a low-r* world for a long time? And does that give 
you any insight into, should we look at this as a cyclical phenomenon or just a long-term 
phenomenon of low r*? 
MS. KLEE. Yes. I think where we are right now—and we’re just going to talk about 
asset valuations. Let’s look at that. We’re at “Notable,” which is the orange color, okay? So it’s 
not the red color. And the level of a lot of asset prices is being pushed up by Treasury yields, 
and yet at the same time we talk about the corporate bond spread being at about the bottom third 
of the distribution. Other risk premiums, the equity risk premium—they’re all kind of around 
that level. So, in that sense, I believe what we’re seeing right now with the asset prices is, at 
least, cyclical, other than being pulled down at the same time by Treasury yields. 
I think in the case of Japan, their big financial crises were in the late ’90s. They had a big 
real estate boom, and so they’ve been trying desperately to get out of that for a very long time. 
We sometimes meet with them, and they talk about the risks that they’re seeing. They focus on 
the quantities—again, on what’s going on with financial leverage. They see more growth in 
some of their riskier institutions, and we monitor just like they do. In some sense, we monitor 
the asset prices, and we monitor the financial leverage. And so right now we see resilient 

institutions. That’s our structural piece. The cyclical piece is these asset valuations that have 
gone up and down, and we do gauge them to do that. 
MR. KAMIN. President Kashkari, just to add on to that: Indeed, Japanese stock prices 
have actually kept better pace with U.S. stock prices than those of European stocks. On top of 
that, we’re seeing some indications of greater reach for yield behavior by Japanese banks, 
particularly regional banks that have been plagued by poor profitability. 
So there are some signs that persistently low interest rates are leading to some reach-for-
yield behavior. But, broadly speaking, Japan is definitely the poster boy—or girl—for low-for-
long interest rates. And just over the course of the decades, we haven’t seen that much 
indication that those low rates are promoting financial imbalances. In fact, this seems like the 
scarring experience of the asset bubble collapse. It seems to have led to a very persistent 
aversion to taking a lot of risk. 
Real estate prices are still lower than I think they were in 1990. Leverage of Japanese 
corporations is not particularly high, not particularly elevated—a lot of cash holdings by 
Japanese corporations. So maybe in another 10 years we would see stronger evidence of reach-
for-yield, but right now it tends to be just in small pockets. 
MR. KAPLAN. Can I just add to the example? So they have underperformed the United 
States—I’d say, dramatically—in terms of performance over the past 10 years. And the 
dynamism, if you look at this issue we’re worried about—lack of business dynamism—I think 
they have it there even dramatically worse than here. 
I don’t know how many initial public offerings (IPOs) there have been in Japan over the 
past two years. They just don’t have the start-ups. But, on the other hand, they don’t have the 
failures either. We were talking yesterday about this. I think it’s a different system—more 

controlled, more groups—but it’s an example: sluggish growth, their price-earnings (P/E) ratios 
have gone like this, and it’s a much more sluggish economy with a lack of dynamism. 
MR. KASHKARI. The thing I’m struggling with is, what do we define as “reach for 
yield” versus what’s just responding to the new macroworld that we’re living in? I don’t know 
how to tell which is which. 
MR. LEHNERT. One commonly cited difference or distinction is, you could have a set 
of firms that have made promises in terms of fixed nominal returns, like pension funds and life 
insurance companies, and those firms have an obvious incentive to gamble for life in an 
unexpectedly low, persistently low interest rate environment. For a range of other firms, it’s 
more like their liabilities are also cheaper in a low interest rate environment. So that’s why 
there’s this particular interest and focus on life insurance companies and pension funds and their 
behavior. 
CHAIR POWELL. More broadly, though, doesn’t it come down to whether you think 
the sovereign yields are going to move way back up? Obviously, if you look at the spread, it’s at 
a pretty normal level. The equity spread looks like it’s right at its median. And so it comes 
down to that. If really low sovereign rates are the new normal, then equities aren’t overvalued, 
they’re right on the median. But, of course, we don’t know that. Is that fair to say? 
MS. KLEE. I think so. 
MR. LEHNERT. That’s right. That is our story. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Okay. President Kashkari is asking exactly the question I 
was going to ask, but I’m not thinking we’re getting answers. So I think that the real question is, 
is the term premium unusually low? You show charts that say it’s very low, but it could very 
well be the new normal for the term premium. 

I’m restating here, I guess, your point. This is what I meant by “structural” versus 
“cyclical.” You look at the term premium, and you say, “Well, that’s cyclically low.” Well, 
look at the U.S. economy. Unemployment is 3.7 percent. You know, interest rates are 
essentially at neutral. It’s not obvious that this is an unusual cyclical state, at least for the U.S. 
economy. So one hypothesis is, the term premium is unusually low, it’ll get back to some new 
normal—we don’t know what that is—and that’s going to push down asset prices. 
The alternative hypothesis is, this is the new normal, given the asymmetry of risks around 
inflation, given low r* and everything we’ve been talking about. And, therefore, even, say, a 
term premium of around zero or slightly negative supports commercial real estate, corporate 
bond yields, and asset prices more generally. 
So if I were to rephrase the last couple of questions, I would say, “How do we distinguish 
between the stories around the term premium?” I don’t think this is at all about the equity 
market. It’s not about the corporate bond market. It’s actually about and has been for some time 
how do we view the U.S. Treasury securities market, the euro area, sovereign bonds, and 
everything else? So I think that’s really where we should be focused—trying to understand that. 
Because if the term premium goes up 2 percentage points from today’s levels, that’s going to 
pull down asset prices around the world dramatically. 
MR. LEHNERT. I don’t know if there’s a question mark at the end of that, but let me— 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. That was a statement of fact. [Laughter] 
MR. LEHNERT. So the one thing that we’ve pointed to over the years is, obviously, the 
hedge value of Treasury securities—an asset that goes up in price during bad times—is 
something that can explain a structural negative term premium. And when that hedge value gets 
called into question—and there was one particular episode in early 2018 when that happened that 

was associated with a lot of volatility in equity markets in particular—it tends to have broad-
reaching effects on asset prices. So I think as long as they maintain their hedge value, then, yes, 
this configuration is perfectly reasonable. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions or comments for the briefers? If not— 
MR. EVANS. Can I ask a clarifying— 
CHAIR POWELL. Please. 
MR. EVANS. I wasn’t expecting Vice Chair Williams’s comment about the risk of 
increasing term permiums. I guess— 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. No, I actually don’t expect that. 
MR. EVANS. Well, that’s why I wasn’t expecting it, I suppose. [Laughter] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. No, no. I guess it’s implicit in some of this presentation that 
the term premium is unusually low, and we would expect it to come back to a more normal level. 
It’s implicit in some— 
MS. KLEE. I think that we cite that as a risk, not necessarily that it would happen. 
MR. EVANS. So most of the experiences in recent years that I can think of that were 
probably disappointments as to the future path of policy, like the 2013 taper tantrum—“Oh my 
gosh, you’re not actually, as a central bank, going to follow through with all of the asset 
purchases that the markets were expecting?”—and perhaps other events. So I guess I’m 
sympathetic to Vice Chair Williams’s perspective on that. 
CHAIR POWELL. I’m just going to add that, with so many dollars in sovereign debt 
trading at negative rates, it’s also very possible that we’re all going to continue to write down our 
estimate of the neutral rate, as we have every year for the past five years—or maybe that process 
has now ended. But maybe not. 

MR. CLARIDA. There’s a zero bound to it. 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Thank you very much. Let’s now begin the opportunity for 
comment on financial stability with President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I thank the staff for continuing to monitor 
financial stability risk, and I particularly appreciate the staff expanding the sectors it is 
monitoring, especially the unregulated sectors into which we have less insight. 
And I found the analysis of the private credit market very interesting. While private debt 
funds and business development companies appear to rely less on leverage and don’t seem to 
pose financial stability concerns at this time, they have been one of the fastest-growing segments 
of the debt market since the financial crisis. So I’m glad the staff is planning to continue to track 
developments there. 
High levels of corporate debt, leveraged lending, and commercial real estate valuations 
continue to pose some risks to the outlook. Equity and corporate bond prices are near their 
historical peaks, and overall valuation risks appear to be rising. Firms with the fastest debt 
growth have seen the greatest deterioration in indicators of their credit risk, including ratios of 
earnings to assets and cash to assets. 
The staff memo indicates there are heightened vulnerabilities in the nonfinancial 
corporate debt sector, although default rates on leveraged loans remain low. I think these 
conditions bear watching. Outreach to market participants identified that financial conditions 
were vulnerable to monetary policy actions perceived as less accommodative than what’s priced 
into markets and to an upside inflation surprise. 
The probability of each is not negligible. The market has priced in more rate cuts than 
seem likely based on the previous SEP and economic outlook, and recent inflation readings have 

been firming a bit. We should be prepared for some increased volatility in the markets and 
communicate our views on the outlook for monetary policy as clearly as possible. Now, the staff 
judges the overall vulnerability of the U.S. financial system as “moderate,” and I have no reason 
to disagree at this point. However, I continue to think we should be better prepared for how we 
would approach a situation of rising risks to financial stability. 
The summary memo indicates that, arguably, a post-crisis consensus has emerged that 
supervisory, regulatory, and macroprudential tools should be used to address financial stability 
risk, and monetary policy tools should be used to address macroeconomic stability risk. This 
may be what’s desired, but it may not be achievable. In addition, as the memo points out, this is 
the best strategy in some models of the economy, but not all. In addition, we have to recognize 
that we have only a small set of macroprudential tools in the United States, consisting largely of 
the countercyclical capital buffer and the stress test. As last year’s tabletop exercise illuminated, 
these tools are limited in their ability to control risk in an asset class or, more narrowly, at 
institutions. In addition, the use of supervisory guidance is now more constrained, and it takes 
time to put regulations or rules in place. 
All of this suggests that in order to control risks to financial stability, we may need to do 
more to ensure the structural resilience of the financial system across the business and financial 
cycles with stronger capital and liquidity requirements, be more willing to use the 
countercyclical tools at early signs of emerging financial stability risk, and recognize that 
monetary policy may need to help contain financial stability risk, at least in some cases. I think 
it behooves us to discuss and reach some consensus on how we should balance our financial 
stability and macrostability responsibilities and how we would use supervisory and 
macroprudential tools and monetary policy to foster these objectives. 

Now, as our framework discussion just underscored, we have a lesson from the financial 
crisis and the Great Recession that the lower bound really poses challenges for us, and we may 
be in a new normal with a low r*. I think the other things we learned from that period included 
how important financial stability is and the fact that we now have much more interconnectedness 
in global financial markets. And I think we need to take that seriously as well. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. A financial stability concern that I’m 
watching closely is the development of co-working models in many major urban office markets. 
The co-working model is currently employed by a variety of companies, but probably the best-
known company in the space is WeWork. Though co-working still represents a small proportion 
of the total size of the CRE office segment, it is growing rapidly. It is growing particularly 
quickly in major cities around the world, including Shanghai, London, and New York, such that 
WeWork is now estimated to be the largest private office tenant in Manhattan. 
What makes this development a potential financial stability risk is twofold. Co-working 
companies that enter into long-term leases with the property owners have tended to re-lease to 
smaller-sized and less-mature companies on a shorter-term basis. This is a segment of the 
economy likely to be particularly susceptible to an economic downturn, potentially resulting in 
office vacancies rising more quickly than they have historically. Thus, in a downturn, WeWork 
would be exposed to the loss of tenant income, which puts both them and the property owner at 
risk if WeWork can not make its own lease payments to the owner. 
A second reason for concern is that companies such as WeWork have created bankruptcy 
remote SPV lease structures. This structure allows the SPV of the co-working company to walk 

away from unprofitable lease arrangements in an economic downturn without the property owner 
having recourse to the ultimate parent, the co-working company. 
The fact that the WeWork model relies on small-company tenants with short-term leases, 
combined with a lack of recourse for the property owner that WeWork leases from, raises the 
issue of whether bank loans to property owners in cities with major penetration by co-working 
models could experience a higher incidence of default and greater loss given default than we 
have seen historically. 
The potential for increased losses accruing to property owners comes not just from the 
limited liability arising from the SPV structure, but also from the change in the composition of 
tenants. The WeWork model opens the door for smaller and riskier firms that may be less able 
to survive a downturn to become tenants. The introduction and growth of the co-working model 
captures the owner–tenant structure in a way that may not be adequately captured in a stress test 
focused on historical relationships. 
At the stress-testing conference in Boston, Mark Flannery suggested stressing parameter 
values in the default and loss given default equations in addition to economic variables. Such a 
strategy might be particularly relevant for the commercial real estate space in major U.S. cities 
that have become more dependent on co-working models, as these models may be less resilient 
to a downturn than more traditional office space. The risk is augmented by the fact that it may 
occur at a time when office capitalization rates are unusually low and valuations are unusually 
high for office space. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. In preparing my earlier remarks, I anticipated that, 
even for myself, I might be going longer than normal. So I decided to put something off until 

this intervention [laughter] related to the framework and financial stability. I’ve already 
mentioned this—let me just second President Mester’s comment that I think it would be very 
useful to have a longer discussion about the interaction between financial stability issues and our 
monetary policy framework. I have to say, I was very heartened to hear Chair Powell indicate 
that nonmonetary policy tools surely seem better to address financial instability risks rather than 
give up on our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and price stability. 
At times, we have talked about the potential that we might have to tighten the funds rate 
even when it might not be the best time, in terms of the economy. Back in 2013, at least, we 
discussed that, and everybody sort of indicated that that wouldn’t be the right way to go, which I 
think you always end up with. 
Doing this in terms of the framework would be helpful, and I was heartened to hear about 
the listing of higher through-the-cycle capital—the countercyclical capital buffer presumably 
could be part of that—and how that could interact with our cyclical monetary policy 
responsibilities. So I look forward to hearing more about that in some discussions. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Just one quick point. As I read through and reflected on this morning’s 
conversation and the one we’re likely to have tomorrow, I note that the financial stability 
assessment is a static look. It’s what it looks like today. We talk a lot about potential risk to 
financial stability caused in low-rate environments, and I’d be curious whether you have the 
capability and, potentially, whether you have the interest in taking more of a forward-looking 
dynamic look at these risks. I’d at least find that modeling useful. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 

MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Chair. First I’d like to thank the staff for their work on the 
QS assessment. I always find that to be a very interesting and useful tool. But my remarks today 
will focus on what’s referred to as “private credit,” or lending by nonbanks. This credit is 
advanced by private equity firms through private credit funds, which obtain funding from 
insurance companies, pension funds, and other investors. 
Private credit overall has been increasing in recent years and is now estimated at about 
$900 billion, compared to the institutional leveraged lending market of about $1.2 billion. No, 
wait—sorry. Is that right? 
MR. QUARLES. Trillion. 
MS. BOWMAN. Trillion. Thank you. We know much less about it because of its 
limited relationship with the banking sector. 
Private credit funds are also relatively new entrants to the lending market, so their 
performance is much less understood. During the previous recession, the private credit market 
was about one-third the size of today’s market, with slightly higher credit losses than leveraged 
lending. It follows, then, that this credit also tends to be extended to riskier borrowers—that is, 
firms with higher debt relative to assets or earnings ratios. 
From a financial stability perspective, private credit funds may pose a lesser risk than 
banks because they tend to be less interconnected with other financial institutions. That said, 
private credit funds do compete with large regional banks, and yet they’re not subject to the same 
degree of regulatory and compliance scrutiny and requirements. 
Since the financial crisis, we’ve seen significant migration from banks to nonbanks in the 
area of residential mortgages, where now about half of all mortgages are originated by nonbanks. 

Private credit composes a smaller, though rising, share of agricultural credit, and it seems that 
there may be similar trends in business credit more broadly. 
My interest today is more specific and focused on lending to agricultural producers, an 
area where generations of relationship lending has traditionally been important. Through many 
cycles—some lengthy and very stressful—banks have relied on a deep understanding of 
agricultural production, particularly when they have geographic proximity and local knowledge. 
Currently, total farm debt in the United States is about $400 billion, with about two-thirds 
backed by agricultural real estate. And 45 percent of agricultural lending is made by the Farm 
Credit System, which is a GSE, and 40 percent by commercial banks. Nonbanks make up the 
balance of 15 percent, a portion of which is private credit. 
In comparison to banks, private equity funds tend to be more focused on loans to riskier 
businesses for a higher yield. This additional credit source could be contributing to the elevated 
land prices we’ve seen in the agricultural markets for the past 10 years. Should agricultural land 
prices decline, this could lead to insufficient debt collateralization for both banks and nonbanks, 
potentially creating significant issues for financial institutions. 
In my view, an important risk associated with the entrance of these private credit firms is 
the durability of their presence. They’ve not yet been tested by a major and prolonged 
agricultural downturn. Experience suggests that these downturns can last multiple years before a 
recovery, requiring patience on the part of lenders. Should private credit funds prove prone to 
liquidate and move out when, inevitably, times get tough, the resulting additional contraction in 
credit supply could significantly deepen an agricultural downturn. 
The good news is that private equity funds are closed end and have stable long-term 
funding from investors, so run risk appears limited. These funds also do not appear to rely much 

on borrowing to fund their lending. About half of the funds borrow from large banks. It also 
bears repeating that, so far, this is a small fraction of the wider agricultural market. But, overall, 
I found the focus on private credit in the QS assessment very interesting this round, and I look 
forward to learning more about these issues in coming months. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Well, the comments so far have been quite 
interesting—new takes on things. And all I’ve got is the same old, same old [laughter], but I will 
go through it anyway. I’ll have a few comments on overall financial stability and how I think we 
should think about that, discuss a few things I think we’ve learned from the stress tests, both the 
most recent round and then over the course of the whole past decade, and wrap up with a few 
thoughts on the countercyclical capital buffer. 
So, overall, I think what we heard today is that the macrofinancial picture seems maybe a 
little “frothy” but not really out of line with this stage of the business cycle. The financial 
system is quite resilient, though, and that has led the staff—and I completely agree with them—
to conclude that overall vulnerabilities facing the financial system are moderate. So, key areas of 
concern: The low level of Treasury yields may be holding up the level of asset prices across a 
range of markets. That creates the potential for a snapback. We’ve had the back-and-forth as to, 
how great actually is that potential for a snapback? It would seem to be quite unlikely at the 
present moment, given monetary policy here and abroad, generally quiescent inflation, and how 
long the period with low term premiums has lasted. We can have a longer discussion about that, 
but, certainly, the near-term risk of that snapback seems to be small. 
The rising level of prime money market fund assets under management—that’s 
something that we want to keep our eye on. The level of prime funds is back to nearly half of 

what it was at the beginning of 2016. Business borrowing—which is something we’ve talked a 
lot about here, and it is talked about in a lot of forums—is cheap and continues to expand at a 
steady clip, particularly leveraged loans. Now, our available information suggests that the 
funding structures that support the holdings of those leveraged loans, such as collateralized loan 
obligations (CLOs), are stable, but the big “but” here is that that assessment relies on what it is 
that we can see, and most of what we can see is information from the largest domestic banks. 
And, obviously, I think we should be worried about the part of the market that we can’t see. So 
the obvious potential is that CLOs could themselves have stable funding, but the holders of 
exposure to those CLOs could be runnable institutions. 
I think in either the last meeting or the meeting before, President Rosengren raised the 
example of Norinchukin Bank with a significant amount of exposure to CLOs. So at the 
Financial Stability Board, as many of you might know, we have established a project for this 
year of examining globally where the risk to financial stability from leveraged lending could 
arise and who are the global holders exposure principally to these CLOs. The idea is that putting 
together this information from a broad range of jurisdictions and from a broad range of 
regulatory sources within those jurisdictions will give us insight that, at the moment, we can’t 
really have from what it is that we know. 
Just as a modest preview, I think we’ve all heard a lot that there may be risks from the 
exposure of Japanese banks, although that exposure tends to be to the top credit tranche. The 
Japanese will tell you in self-defense that non-Japan Asia has a significantly large exposure and 
concentrated much lower in the credit stack in the CLOs, and maybe that should be something 
we should look at. In any event, this should be done in the fall. I’m sure you will all pore over it 
obsessively, but the idea is that we really need to look at this from a global perspective, and we 

can’t just let it be. But even with those concerns, our financial institutions—and, particularly, 
our largest banks—are extremely, extremely resilient, and the confidence in that stems in part 
from the scrutiny that they receive as part of the stress-testing program, both recently and over 
time. 
In June we released last year’s stress-test results. They show that the financial system 
remains resilient, that capital planning by banks continues to improve. The largest and most 
complex banks were tested against a severe hypothetical recession on perhaps the most 
consequential measure: the rapid fall in employment, or a rise in the unemployment rate. That, 
for obvious reasons, was going to be tougher this year than it was last year and than it has ever 
been. And they still had strong capital levels up to the test, well above their minimum 
requirements. Additionally, virtually all of the firms—in fact, all but one, and that was a pretty 
close call among the staff making the assessment—met the high expectations that we’ve set on 
the quality of their capital planning, taking into account their specific risks and vulnerabilities. 
So, overall, those results are good news. They confirm that the financial system is 
significantly stronger than before the crisis. And then soon after the release of those 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) results, President Rosengren and the 
Boston Fed graciously hosted our centerpiece stress-testing conference, and the theme of that 
conference was on the lessons learned over the past decade—not just the most recent stress test, 
but what have we learned from stress testing. And one lesson that I thought was particularly 
useful was on the importance of the stress test in leaning against the pro-cyclicality of bank 
capital. 
As we all know, when times are good, banks become more comfortable with loan quality. 
Consequently, they don’t build as much capital over their minimums as they might in less 

complacent times. The stress tests push against that tendency by building in increasingly 
stringent macroeconomic scenarios as the economy improves. That’s almost an automatic 
stabilizer-type consequence, given the framework in which we create those scenarios. And 
papers at the conference highlighted that lesson, including one by former Fed denizens Don 
Kohn and Nellie Liang. And that feature of bank behavior is also one of the reasons why the 
Basel III reforms recommended establishing another countercyclical capital tool, the 
countercyclical capital buffer, or CCyB. 
What I wanted to end with are some remarks on the overlap that exists between the goals 
of the CCyB and the goals of the stress tests. In many ways, I think the two can and probably 
have to work together. Nellie and Don’s paper flagged the potential for stress tests to lead to an 
unwanted and potentially sharp tightening in capital requirements in the midst of a moderate 
recession. So, given that, the CCyB offers an elegant complement to the stress test by creating 
the possibility of a layer of capital that could be turned down to support lending through that type 
of a stress period or a moderate downturn. 
On the other hand, some object and say that that use of the countercyclical capital buffer 
is going to be limited. You won’t be able to turn it off, because markets wouldn’t permit it. You 
know, that’s the very moment when markets are going to insist that banks preserve their capital. 
Whatever the regulators would allow, the markets won’t allow banks to reduce capital. But the 
stress tests and their transparency should help assure market participants of the size of the 
exposures and of the solvency of the banks and thus allow the turning-down of that 
countercyclical capital buffer. That’s certainly how the countercyclical capital buffer has 
worked in jurisdictions that have turned it on and turned it off. Again, the principal example of 
that is Britain in connection with all the anticipation around Brexit: They’ve turned it on, and 

they’ve turned it off. They have been able to do that. For that reason, I’d be in favor of 
incorporating features of the CCyB into the stress capital buffer and vice versa. But a difficulty 
arises in the fact that I think the assessment of financial stability that we’ve had from the staff 
here would lead us to conclude that we effectively have already turned on our CCyB with the 
ample structural buffers that we have. 
So what do I mean by that? We’ve seen and we were briefed today on examples of 
concerns about financial stability, including stretched asset valutions and concerns about 
maturity transformation. If you go back to the overall purpose of the countercyclical capital 
buffer, it is that, as concerns about financial stability grow, we would increase the capital levels 
of the financial institutions that we regulate in order to bring our overall assessment of financial 
stability risk back down to something that’s moderate, that’s not meaningfully above normal. 
And in all the assessments of financial stability that we have talked about around this table, that 
we talk about at the Board, we have seen these increases in asset prices. We’ve seen increases in 
concerns in others areas about financial stability. And when we come to leverage in the financial 
sector, that basically swamps everything, and we say, okay, concerns are not meaningfully above 
normal. They are only moderate because leverage in the financial sector is so low, which is 
another way of saying that the purpose of the countercyclical capital buffer has already been 
achieved. The capital that we would have added through the countercyclical capital buffer we 
already have, and the problem with that is that now we don’t have anything to turn down in the 
event of a business cycle because we did that through our stable capital levels. 
One option would be to meld the two buffers to adjust the normal level of the CCyB from 
zero to a percentage of risk-weighted assets so that it is on generally and to take some slice of 
our current capital levels and to turn that into countercyclical capital buffer or a flexible layer of 

capital—which is similar to what many of you know that the Bank of England has done and, in 
fact, is aggressively trying to increase, moving to having as much as 2 to 3 percentage points of 
their total capital levels be this flexible layer of capital that they could turn down and then call 
that the countercyclical capital buffer. By doing that, I think we’d be able to simplify our capital 
requirements but continue to retain both through-the-cycle resilience and countercyclical buffers 
and, indeed, recognize what it is that it seems that we have done by our constant assessment of 
financial stability risks as moderate, even in the face of potentially growing risks. 
The alternative of turning the countercyclical capital buffer on without making that 
adjustment—particularly if some of the discussion we’ve had about a secular decline in interest 
rates driven by a long-term lower r* supporting asset prices is the case, we may not be in that 
much financial stability risk anyway—would result in us incurring the diminution of the capacity 
of the financial sector to support economic growth by increasing its capital levels without any 
attendant financial stability compensation because the risks may not, in fact, be that high. Or if, 
in fact, this is something that will adjust itself and is cyclical, since we already have quite high 
capital levels—effectively, the countercyclical capital buffer is “on,” in my view—we could 
drive activity out of the resilient part of the financial system and more into the area of private 
credit business development corporations that are less resilient and into which we have less 
visibility. Do we really want to do that, given where we are? Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. We have several interventions left, and we’re past coffee 
break time. So I’m going to say let’s have our coffee break now, and we will start again at 3:25 
sharp, by that clock. Thank you very much. 
[Coffee break] 

CHAIR POWELL. All right. Thanks, everyone. We’ll pick it up again with President 
George. 
MS. GEORGE. All right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like Governor Quarles, I am 
going to continue on a familiar theme, although perhaps with a different take. [Laughter] With 
the easing of credit conditions since the beginning of the year, the profitability outlook for U.S. 
G-SIBs, especially in terms of their interest income, suggests these banks are likely to pursue 
riskier strategies to generate revenue to offset a slowdown or contraction in interest income. 
As the quantitative surveillance (QS) report observes, credit quality for recent issuance of 
corporate institutional loans continues to decline. As these banks reach for other and perhaps 
riskier sources of income, you can see them ramping up the volumes of leveraged loans that end 
up on the books of nonbank entities, such as CLOs. As CLOs manufacture triple-A rated 
products from the speculative-grade loans, the banks generate fee income, and fund managers 
enjoy higher yields, reinforcing incentives to generate an increasingly larger share of these 
riskier loans. Although the QS report concludes this vulnerability is not out of bounds yet, these 
strategies are in play, as capital levels for the largest banks are declining. As Elizabeth noted, 
payout ratios of Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs), which are already above 100 
percent, are expected to increase based on the capital plans approved in CCAR. And G-SIBs 
have publicly announced that they are likely to raise payouts, lowering their common equity 
targets 100 to 300 basis points. 
Historically, the combination of growing risk incentives with declining capital levels has 
not turned out well. Perhaps this time is different, but I find it concerning. As the Committee 
contemplates a more accommodative policy stance, it will be relying on assessments that these 

reduced levels of capital, in the face of growing risk, are sufficiently robust to withstand stress 
and continue to lend at the next turn of the credit cycle. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. Conditions today provide a classic environment for 
reach-for-yield behavior and increases in risky debt, and, of course, that is what we are seeing. 
Valuations in equity and corporate bond markets are near historic peaks. Commercial real estate 
prices are also elevated, and commercial real estate (CRE) capitalization rates remain very low 
by historical standards. Valuation pressures in the leveraged loan market are elevated, with 
nonprice terms particularly generous recently, and corporate-sector debt is at or near a historical 
high, whether measured relative to nominal GDP or to the book value of assets. 
Moreover, the latest data suggest corporate debt continues to grow rapidly for the riskiest 
firms. While there has been some slowing in leveraged loan issuance recently, there has instead 
been a compensating increase in issuance of high-yield and unrated bonds. In this kind of 
environment, when it is relatively cheap to build capital by retaining earnings and when 
exposures to future risks are rising, classic macroprudential policy would call for capital ratios to 
be rising. Instead—and here my comments will echo President George’s—the capital ratios at 
the largest banks are falling notably. 
Under the rigors of the stress-testing regime and other regulatory requirements that 
prevailed from 2014 to 2016, the eight largest banks that pose the greatest risk to the system 
limited their payouts to less than 60 percent of earnings, on average, thereby building their 
capital buffers relative to risk assets from about 11.6 percent of tier 1 capital to 12.9 percent 
common equity tier 1 capital going into the 2017 stress test. Over the previous two years, 
payouts have been permitted to rise well above 100 percent of earnings, on average, and capital 

ratios have already declined from 12.9 percent to 12.2 percent. This year, the largest firms 
announced nearly $120 billion in planned share buybacks and plans to increase dividends. 
If earnings hold steady at last year’s levels, those increased distributions would represent 
a payout ratio significantly in excess of 100 percent and would further deplete capital ratios back 
down to about 11½ percent, back down to the starting ratios in 2014. If earnings are weaker, 
capital ratios could decline by more. History suggests that as the business cycle proceeds, both 
market participants and regulators become increasingly complacent. We are seeing complacency 
currently among market participants, as reflected in high asset prices, weak lending standards, 
and a tendency to favor riskier forms of lending. As regulators, we should be wary of falling into 
that same pattern. 
With the cycle well extended, a countercyclical approach to capital regulation would 
suggest that current levels of capital should be above their historical average, and they should 
have been rising, not falling, over the past few years of solid growth and financial market gains. 
Capital could then be released if the economy were to deteriorate, relieving what might 
otherwise be a constraint on bank lending. That raises the question whether current capital levels 
at the large banks, which are moving down to the 11½ percent range, are indeed above the 
desired through-the-cycle average level of capital. Board staff research assessing both the costs 
and benefits found that regulatory capital ratios should be in the range of 13 to 25 percent on 
average. Other research has come to similar, or in some cases higher, levels. 
Current capital ratios are currently below the lower end of that range and are headed 
lower, so if anything, we should be looking for ways to raise bank capital standards, not lower 
them. It is sometimes argued that our capital standards should be lower to improve 
competitiveness with foreign banks, but U.S. banks are healthier, more profitable, and more 

competitive than their foreign competitors. Moreover, regulatory discrepancies may legitimately 
reflect different degrees of willingness to provide government bailouts. 
In the United States, post-crisis statutory changes clearly require regulation to be 
calibrated to avoid taxpayers again being put at risk by severe stress at a large bank. As I 
implied in our framework discussion, getting macroprudential policy right is crucial to meeting 
our dual-mandate goals. If the past three recessions are any guide, it is financial imbalances 
rather than price inflation that tend to pose the greatest risk to the expansion and so, therefore, it 
is key to achieving our monetary policy goals that the banking system remain well capitalized 
and that, as regulators, we resist the complacency that history suggests tends to accompany a 
strong economy. 
Finally, President Barkin suggested that our QS should be looking at risks in a forward-
looking and dynamic framework. Certainly, in my capacity as chair of the Board’s Financial 
Stability Committee, I very much share that view, and I know the staff does as well. One of the 
most promising avenues for that work that we have been talking about is to use our stress-testing 
machinery to analyze some of these financial risks in forward-looking scenario analysis that isn’t 
prescriptive for purposes of capital planning but is, instead, oriented simply to informing our 
own internal thinking. And I think that arena has great promise. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’ll just briefly comment. I often use the 
term “excesses and imbalances” and talk of worries about that. And I will just clarify, here’s 
what I’m referring to when I use that term. In a low-rate but dynamic economy, where there is 
not a great limit to people’s desire and ability and motivation to make money—in many cases, 
personally make money—if it goes on long enough, it can lead to behavior that is hard to manage 

when a downturn occurs. And I’m not referring to stock market valuations when I talk about 
this. Yes, price-earnings ratios (P/E’s) are going up. Last year we had P/E contraction; this year 
we have P/E expansion. If you had a selloff in the stock market, it might even be a healthy thing. 
That’s really not what I’m looking at. What we’ve been talking to, and others are referring to, 
are record levels of corporate debt to GDP. I wrote an essay on this in the fall, and before this 
meeting I checked: Corporate debt to GDP is higher as a percentage than it was when I wrote 
the essay—a tripling in triple-B rated debt, dramatic growth in leveraged loans, as well as high-
yield debt. 
President Rosengren talked about real estate, real estate capitalization rates, and what’s 
going on in that market. A lot of this is being driven, in fairness, by mergers, share repurchases, 
and a historically high level of activism, in which the typical page of the activist playbook says, 
you know, buy back your stock, create earnings per share accretion. It makes sense with a 
historically low level of rates. The cost of debt is cheap. What I’m more worried about, though, 
recently—and Governor Bowman mentioned—is acceleration in the growth of these private 
entities, usually P/E-sponsored, nonbank vehicles. And the reason I’m worried about them is, 
they are either going public, or they’re being created in multibillion-dollar size. And they are 
creating access to smaller companies to get debt. 
Some of these companies might not be able to get sizable bank debt, but—and I’ve 
looked at the list of names, and I mentioned it yesterday, of these business development 
corporations, or BDCs. I just don’t recognize a lot of the companies. And when you look at the 
sizes, they are mid-cap companies. They are borrowing second lien debt at LIBOR plus 800 
basis points. And you might say, who would borrow second lien debt today at LIBOR plus 800 
basis points? But there are a sizable number of companies out there doing it. Eight-year final 

maturity, prepayable annually. And so what strikes me—and I’ll get to what I think we ought to 
do about it—what we’re setting up for is, we’re going to get to a point where we’re going to have 
a greater slowing in the future at some point. You’ll have a credit spread widening. It’s not that 
these companies may not be able to support this debt. It’s when it comes time to refinance, they 
are going to have a refinancing issue. You could easily have challenged market liquidity. You’ll 
have a credit crunch. And as we’ve said before, it will amplify a slowing. But as it builds, the 
degree of amplification is heading higher, not lower. 
It strikes me, if the music stopped today, I think we’d have a challenging situation to deal 
with, but I’m more worried about what happens from here. And building on what President 
Barkin said and what Governor Brainard said, it’s what happens next that worries me more. And 
so I think we’ve got a great team, and I appreciate the work our QS team is doing on this. But I 
would be watching very, very carefully for what’s happening in terms of new developments with 
BDCs. And I think you mentioned it, Governor Bowman did, and we’ve looked. There is not 
great information on BDCs. There is great information on CLOs, and I actually think that is a 
pretty good structure. Not great information on BDCs. 
We had a direct talk with the rating agencies, and it was alarming. They gave us a range 
of their estimate of the size of the market—$300 billion to $900 billion—in other words, not a 
great feel for it, and I can understand now why. But to the extent we have great information-
gathering ability, if we could look more at these BDCs, who are they lending to and any other 
new vehicle developments—again, I think it’s what happens from here that we’re going to look 
back a few years from now and regret. 
In that context, back to macroprudential options, I do think any one of our decisions in 
isolation seems like it makes sense. But looking at macroprudential—that is, bank regulation—

in the context of all of these other developments, I would love to step back and just say, you 
know, are there other macroprudential options we should be thinking about for the banks, in light 
of all of these other developments going on broadly in the financial system as it relates to debt 
and debt buildup? 
I just think it would be a healthy exercise, and we’re probably at the point now in the 
cycle where we should be at the edge of our seats. If we were vigilant before, we should be 
extremely vigilant from here. And, if nothing comes of it, I will be the first to apologize for 
annoying everyone. But I think we should have heightened vigilance from now on, because I 
think these risks are building. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of the things I thought was really 
interesting in our framework discussion this morning was the intersection with financial stability. 
I’m glad that it came up as robustly as it did. It’s very important. I continue to think that 
monetary policy is a poor tool to use to lean against rising asset prices, because the costs to Main 
Street are too high. But if the largest banks’ capital levels continue to fall and if our tools that 
are specifically designed to enhance financial stability weaken, then even I would need to 
consider using monetary policy, if that’s the only tool we have available. I certainly hope it 
doesn’t come to that, because I think we’d be prioritizing Wall Street over Main Street in that 
scenario. 
Many people over the years have talked about the countercyclical capital buffer. It’s 
never been activated. From what I understand, when it was designed, it was supposed to be on 
one-third of the time, and it has not yet been activated. And the stress tests are becoming easier. 
As others have noted, the large banks are now paying out more than their earnings, and capital 

levels are falling, which is the exact wrong direction. I totally echo what Governor Brainard 
said. Our analysis in Minneapolis echoes other independent analyses that, to protect taxpayers, 
the optimal level of capital is substantially higher than the capital levels that the banks have 
today. 
The overall QS assessment of vulnerabilities facing the financial system is yellow, not 
red, is based in large part, I think, on the notion that the banks have more capital and liquidity 
than before the crisis, so the banks are considered green. But if you go back and reassess, are the 
banks really green? And if not, thenis the overall QS assessment really yellow? I don’t think the 
banks are really green. I think the banks are something south of green, and that would suggest 
the QS report should be red. And that would point to then activating the countercyclical capital 
buffer. So, to me, the standard of “Are the banks stronger than they were before the crisis?” is a 
false standard. There should be more of an absolute judgment. And on an absolute measure, I 
think the evidence is, they are not strong enough. 
I am concerned about the transparency of the stress tests. You know, we have seen this 
movie over and over again. When dollars are on the line, people will seek to game the tests or 
outright cheat. Think about Volkswagen. Volkswagen literally programmed their cars to detect 
when they were in an emissions test and to then automatically change their engine behavior to 
lower their power output and reduce emissions. And then, once the test was over, the cars 
reverted back to their polluting, full-power ways. So they literally changed the dynamics when 
they were in the test. This is not dissimilar to banks buying options to hedge their investment 
portfolios during stress tests when they know the stress scenario in advance, only to allow those 
hedges to expire after the test. It makes them look safer, and then we will allow them to pay out 

more capital. And we know that some banks have been doing this. And, by the way, the 
Volkswagen executives are going to jail for this behavior. 
So, on the basis of our discussion, it is clear that there is a lot we don’t know about asset 
prices, yields, spreads, term premiums, and what is an imbalance versus what is simply a 
repricing in a low-r* environment. There is a lot we don’t know. Given these uncertainties, I 
think we should err on the side of making sure that big banks are safe, and that means making 
sure that they have enough capital if bad things happen. We know how to do this, and we have 
the tools to do it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. More comments on financial stability? Seeing none, why 
don’t we go right into the economy go-round, beginning with President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. At the previous FOMC meeting, I was 
concerned that trade and geopolitical uncertainties would become a reality by the time of this 
meeting. Fortunately, that did not occur. The outcome from side meetings of the G-20 was as 
good as could be expected. No additional tariffs were levied, and an agreement was made to 
resume negotiations. While the outcome of trade talks remains uncertain and is clearly a 
headwind for global growth and business fixed investment, this uncertainty is largely being 
offset by other factors. Thus, despite these headwinds, the Tealbook sees global real GDP 
growth picking up to 2.2 percent in the second half of the year before rising to 2½ percent in the 
following two years. 
The effect of tariffs on trade is one part of the outlook. We should ask whether trade 
headwinds are large enough to depress the overall outlook. At the time of the previous meeting, 
the Tealbook expected U.S. real GDP growth of 1.8 percent in the second quarter. The actual 
number, as you know, was 2.1 percent, bolstered by very strong consumption that offset 

weakness in the foreign sector and business fixed investment. Thus, despite the trade-related 
headwinds, the economy so far continues to grow faster than potential, consistent with a 
somewhat lower unemployment rate next year. 
Another potential headwind to growth this year was the uncertainty around the likelihood 
of reaching agreement on the debt ceiling and the federal budget. As we have learned, 
government shutdowns can be quite disruptive and threaten to undermine business and 
household confidence. However, with the recent agreement, it looks like these concerns have 
been postponed through the end of next year, reducing some of the near-term fiscal uncertainty. 
These improved outcomes are reflected in some measures of uncertainty. The VIX measure of 
stock market volatility is not particularly elevated and lies well below the peaks that occurred at 
the end of last year. Credit spreads, which can reflect concerns about the potential for a 
recession, are also not elevated and remain below the levels reached at the end of last year. 
A third measure of uncertainty may be found in the probability distributions for real GDP 
outcomes provided by the Survey of Professional Forecasters. These distributions have not 
shifted significantly lately, unlike in the past periods of heightened uncertainty, such as 
following the stock market crash of October ’87 or the 9/11 attacks. One reason that uncertainty 
measures may have remained relatively calm of late is the expectation of a lower federal funds 
rate, but the G-20 meeting outcome and the string of positive data we have received since our 
June meeting were also important. 
The June employment report showed an increase of 224,000 jobs that more than offset 
the weakness in the May report and resulted in a very healthy 171,000 jobs created on average 
over the past three months. Consumer spending was particularly robust in the second quarter. 
While the June Tealbook had assumed consumption would grow at 3 percent, the advance report 

for the second quarter showed a much stronger 4.3 percent. Most of the data on inflation have 
also surprised on the upside. The core CPI inflation rate was higher than expected. Last week’s 
core PCE price data showed inflation firming, and the Dallas Fed’s PCE trimmed-mean estimate 
remained steady at 2 percent. 
In addition, my staff has done some work looking at the weighted median PCE measure 
of inflation. This alternative gauge of inflation ranks the percentage change in 211 subindexes of 
PCE inflation and uses as the median the percentage change of the subindex at the 
50th percentile of cumulated consumption weights. An error-correction model suggests this 
monthly median PCE inflation measure is a good predictor of future total and core PCE 
measures. Currently, the median PCE is above 2 percent and it has been rising over the past 
couple of years. Thus, readings on median PCE prices and the Dallas trimmed-mean inflation 
measure are consistent with total and core PCE inflation being weighed down temporarily by 
subindexes that are particularly affected by changes in the calculation of some price indexes or 
technology innovations. Such changes would presumably be less persistent and thus less 
indicative of underlying inflation trends. 
Corroborating these statistical measures of underlying inflation, the Tealbook forecast 
indicates that core PCE inflation will be just under 2 percent by the end of the year. Altogether, 
this evidence is consistent with the recent weakness in total and core PCE inflation being 
transitory and not a more worrisome and persistent miss below our target. I place less emphasis 
on TIPS-based inflation measures than other members of the Committee. But measures of 
forward and average inflation calculated from TIPS and the Michigan survey of inflation 
expectations have all firmed over the past month, consistent with the generally firming inflation 
data. Furthermore, I find it difficult to calibrate monetary policy to react strongly to relatively 

small changes in estimates of the underlying expectation of inflation. Finally, I would add that 
stock indexes and measures of nonfinancial debt to GDP are near all-time highs. Stock indexes 
are up significantly from both the start of the year and from the June meeting. Stoking asset 
valuations at the top of the valuation cycle is likely to lead to larger losses whenever these 
exuberant expectations are no longer ratified. I will talk more about my financial stability 
concerns tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. With Friday’s release of the Q2 GDP data, 
we learned that the economy in the first half of the year grew 2.6 percent. Year-to-date, the 
unemployment rate has averaged 3.8 percent and remains near its lowest level in 50 years. 
Wages have been rising broadly in line with productivity and prices but, if anything, have 
recently been surprising on the downside—for example, average hourly earnings. Thus, the data 
simply do not signal the rising cost-push pressure that we would expect to see if the labor market 
were overheating. Notwithstanding strong growth and low unemployment, core PCE is running 
at 1.6 percent on a June-over-June basis or 1.5 percent on a Q2-over-Q2 basis. So U.S. price 
pressures remain muted, and various measures of expected inflation continue to reside at the 
lower end of a range that I myself consider consistent with our objective. 
Since our June meeting, the U.S. economic data have been coming in at or even above 
expectations, and the staff in the July Tealbook accordingly revised up its estimate of first-half 
growth. So it’s tempting to extrapolate these pleasant surprises into the future and to revise 
upward projections of U.S. activity, and the staff did that to some extent. They now show 
second-half growth running at 1.9 percent, roughly in line with trend, but I would point out that 
if that materializes, it would represent a slowdown from the recent pace of activity. While 

consumption growth is likely to continue to support economic expansion, given elevated 
uncertainties about the ultimate outcome of trade negotiations and the marking down of global 
growth prospects, capital spending and exports have been and are likely to remain a headwind 
for growth. Now, on inflation, the staff projects second-half core PCE inflation running at 
1.8 percent by the end of the year, and eventually, in later years, they do expect core inflation to 
edge up to 1.9 percent. But I do think there are some risks to that outlook, and I’ll talk about that 
in a moment. 
I would cite three factors that continue to give me some cause for concern about the 
balance of risks for the outlook, especially the outlook for inflation. Let me talk about the global 
economy. Our mandate is U.S. employment and price stability, but we’re part of a global 
economy, and that is a factor in our thinking about the outlook. And I must say that the outlook 
for the global economy continues to be marked down in the Tealbook and by outside forecasters. 
Sluggish global growth is a headwind for exports, and this is evident in the just-released GDP 
data, which show that, over the most recent four quarters, real exports have actually declined 
about 2 percent. It’s actually unusual for real exports to decline outside of recessions—the past 
two times it happened were in 2016 and 1998. So, again, a slowdown for activity there. 
As we’ve mentioned, persistent uncertainty about the outcome of trade negotiations 
cannot be a positive for business investment. Business fixed investment continues to be either 
flat or negative, and the staff sees no pickup in the second half of the year. In response to this 
evident loss of global growth momentum, year-to-date, a dozen or so central banks around the 
world have eased policy or, like the ECB this week, have signaled a clear intention to ease 
policy. On this point, let me be clear and more direct than I can be outside of this room. We 
operate in an integrated global capital market. Policy rates are low globally and are being cut in 

response to a common global slowdown and disinflationary headwinds, and more than 
$10 trillion of global sovereign debt trades at negative yields. 
The United States is the only advanced economy with a positive real policy rate. U.S. 
rates can and do diverge to some extent from global rates, but I think there’s a limit to how far 
this can proceed without consequences that will complicate our efforts to achieve our dual-
mandate objectives. On inflation, although core PCE inflation is projected to rebound to 
1.8 percent by the end of the year, the staff does not see it over the forecast horizon returning to 
our 2 percent target on a sustained basis. And I agree, 1.9 percent is close to 2 percent, but let’s 
look at the risks to this outlook. Financial market signals of expected inflation have rebounded 
since the June meeting, but this is due, I believe, to a repricing, to some extent, of our policy rate 
path. For example, on June 17, the day before the previous FOMC meeting, five-year, five-year-
forward breakeven inflation fell to 1.77 percent, which was the lowest “print” for this series 
since 2016, nearly three years and seven rate hikes ago. Since our June meeting, this indicator of 
inflation compensation has rebounded and is just around 2 percent now. 
Regarding the staff outlook for inflation, recall that 1.8 percent is the staff’s current 
estimate of underlying inflation. The staff can project inflation moving above underlying 
inflation only because it continues to project an output gap of nearly 2 percent of GDP based on 
a u* estimate of 4.6 percent. One of the reasons that I see a real downside risk to our price-
stability objective, and so of reaching, let alone sustaining, inflation at our target, is that I believe 
the output gap is much smaller than does the staff. As a result, I see less incipient upward 
cyclical pressure on inflation than built into the staff’s forecast. My personal estimate of u* is 4 
percent, and in the next SEP round I may mark that down even lower, because I just don’t see the 
wage inflation that would indicate overheating. So with a u* at 4 percent or below and an 

Okun’s law coefficient of 2, the output gap would be less than half that of the staff’s, and that 
would mean less upward pressure on inflation in their model. 
Third, let me talk a little bit about financial markets. We cannot, I firmly believe, be 
handcuffed to financial markets. They move up and down. They get things wrong as much as, 
or more than, they get them right. But I don’t think that we can ignore financial markets. The 
inversion of the slope of the Treasury yield curve, with respect to 3-month rate/10-year rates, has 
now persisted for around two months. And, to me, this is a market signal that is hard to ignore. 
As I’ve discussed in previous meetings, there are many factors—domestic and global—
that can operate to flatten the U.S. Treasury curve. And, for this reason, the slope of the curve by 
itself is not a particularly informative signal about U.S. economic activity. But outright 
persistent inversions of the 3-month/10-year yield curve are rare, as the San Francisco Fed 
research and other research have pointed out. And they have, without fail, at least in the past 50 
years, not provided a false signal. If they’re persistent, and lasted for longer than we’ve had so 
far, they have been followed by a recession within 18 months. Now, this time may be different. 
Let me stipulate that. But the risk that it may not should, I think, at least factor into our thinking. 
This is especially the case today, because the yield curve inversion is coinciding with the steep 
fall in global inflation-indexed bond yields and, I might add, in the Laubach-Williams estimates 
of r*. 
At the time of our December FOMC meeting, five-year TIPS yields, five-years forward 
were around 1 percent and as recently as April were 75 basis points. Right now, they’re about 
30 basis points, which is the lowest level since 2016. Indeed, globally forward real yields been 
falling. Falling forward real yields in conjunction with falling inflation measures together 
suggest that market expectations for growth and inflation are marked down—again, not 

infallible, but something to factor in. Of course, there’s noise as well as signal in financial 
market prices, but the direction, if not the magnitude, of these moves is consistent with concerns 
the downside risks are elevated and should be factored into our analysis. Thank you, Chair 
Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Eighth District contacts talked a lot about 
heavy flooding and wet conditions extending for such a long time through the spring and into the 
summer that many crops were substantially delayed or were simply never planted. There is crop 
insurance, but many policies that are commonly used pay only 60 percent of expected revenue. 
Agribusiness supply is down about one-third this year in many portions of the District. For 
comparison, we looked back at the great Mississippi River flood of 1993. We think this year’s 
flooding is about one-third as damaging as that major event. Our calculation suggests that 
2019:Q3 real GDP will be lower by about 0.15 percentage point because of this factor, mostly in 
reduced Q3 farm inventory because of missing or delayed production. 
Business contacts are concerned about tariffs. One quote: “Tariff policy is impacting the 
region, and it’s not just farming. We need stability in what we are doing with tariffs.” A global 
trade policy uncertainty index that we track is at its highest level in almost 20 years. My own 
assessment is that trade policy uncertainty is unlikely to return to lower levels over the forecast 
horizon. The world is in the midst of a reassessment of global trading arrangements. It is well 
known from the postwar trade liberalization experience that these are thorny issues that cannot 
be resolved easily or quickly in a comprehensive manner. This trade policy uncertainty is 
weighing on global growth prospects, and there is some prospect that the feedback to the United 
States will be more consequential than currently contemplated in the U.S. economic outlook. 

We saw some of this in the international briefing just a few moments ago: Global 
manufacturing purchasing manager indexes (PMIs) suggest manufacturing currently is in 
contraction. While the U.S. economy overall is performing reasonably well, at least looking 
backward, real GDP growth is slowing from the 3 percent year-over-year growth rate that we 
were experiencing as of the third quarter of last year and may slow further in the second half of 
2019. The risk is that the continued slowdown of real GDP growth toward potential growth in 
the United States could be sharper than expected, given the ongoing trade war. We can afford to 
buy some insurance against such an outcome because inflation by our preferred core PCE 
measure is about 1.6 percent year-over-year, not too different from its average value over the 
past seven years. The positive surprise in the U.S. economy over the past two and a half years 
has not translated into higher inflation, using our preferred measure. 
While I’m sympathetic to other measures of inflation, I think we should maintain 
credibility based on the preferred measure that we express even though I do respect other 
measures and think highly of them. I think it’s fair to say that inflation is muted. Even more 
worrisome to me is that inflation expectations by various measures remain low compared with 
periods over which actual inflation was closer to target. The St. Louis Fed’s factor-augmented 
vector autoregression, or FAVAR, model suggests actual headline inflation will remain 
meaningfully below 2 percent over the next 12 months. The very weak relationship between 
labor market activity and inflation in recent years suggests that an impulse to inflation from that 
channel, should it occur, would be manageable. For these reasons, I think now is a good time to 
re-center both inflation and inflation expectations at our 2 percent target. 
Finally, the slope of the yield curve between the 3-month Treasury rate and the 10-year 
Treasury yield remains inverted. Recession probability measures based on spreads remain 

elevated, and in this regard, I agree with Governor Clarida. The spread between the 2-year 
Treasury yield and the 10-year Treeasury yield is not inverted yet because markets expect us to 
ease at this and upcoming meetings. For this reason, I do not yet take a negative signal from the 
3-month-to-10 year spread inversion, but it has been 60 days, and I think we need to follow 
through and lower the policy rate here. My hope is that the yield curve will return to a more 
natural upward slope in the months ahead. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Overall, the reports from District contacts 
suggest that economic activity in the Fourth District slowed in recent weeks, but business 
sentiment has improved, and the majority of our contacts expect growth to remain near trend for 
the remainder of 2019. The Cleveland Fed staff’s diffusion index of business conditions fell 
from 17 in June to zero in July. This decline was largely driven by the manufacturing and freight 
sectors, and contacts said recent slowing was at least in part due to activity being pulled forward 
into 2018 to avoid expected increases in tariffs on imports from China. Slower growth abroad 
was also cited. Although there’s continued uncertainty about trade policy, it seemed to be less of 
a concern among our contacts than it did at the time of our June meeting, and few contacts 
reported making material changes to their capital spending plans in response. 
District labor market conditions remain strong. The unemployment rate has moved down 
½ percentage point since the start of the year and stood at 4 percent in June. This is a new low 
for the unemployment rate this expansion and well below the Cleveland staff’s estimate of the 
unemployment rate’s longer-run normal level. Year-over-year growth in payroll employment in 
the District was about ½ percent in June. While somewhat lower than earlier in the year, payroll 
growth remains above the Cleveland staff’s estimate of its longer-run trend. 

Except in the freight and manufacturing sectors, District firms continue to report they’re 
having trouble finding workers to meet current demand. For example, a commercial 
construction contact in Kentucky noted that competition is so intense that if a firm hires 4 skilled 
workers, 3 of them will be gone within 60 days, having gotten better offers from other firms. In 
another case, a community banker from northwestern Ohio reported that a local manufacturer 
would be happy to hire 10 additional workers if only he could find them. Tight labor market 
conditions in the District have continued to put upward pressure on wages, especially those of 
lower-wage workers. However, price pressures at District firms appear to have moderated, 
partly reflecting lower steel prices and shipping costs. The prices received index, which was 
very elevated in the second half of last year, has fallen over the past two months to levels seen in 
mid-2017. 
Regarding the national economy, incoming data over the intermeeting period were 
largely positive. These indicators include the June data on payrolls, retail sales, orders of 
nondefense capital goods excluding aircraft, and CPI inflation. In addition, although there 
remains uncertainty surrounding trade policy and tariffs, these concerns have tempered. A 
slowing in real GDP growth in the second quarter was anticipated, on account of the contribution 
that inventories and net exports made to first-quarter growth. But second-quarter growth turned 
out to be better than expected at the time of our June meeting, another piece of positive news. 
And growth in real disposable personal income was revised up significantly in the first quarter, 
indicating faster growth in compensation, which should support consumer spending. 
While business investment and manufacturing activity remains subdued, we have seen 
some firming over the past couple of months, and housing market indicators may be stabilizing, 
albeit at a low level of activity. Financial conditions remain accommodative. The Chicago 

Fed’s index indicates that financial conditions are more accommodative than at the beginning of 
this year and for most of 2015 to 2017. Stock market volatility has declined, and the S&P 500 
index has set multiple record highs over the intermeeting period, suggesting that equity investors 
are not that concerned about the outlook. The low levels of longer-term Treasury yields and 
other sovereign debt yields suggest these investors have more concerns, but the relatively low 
levels of corporate debt spreads also suggest these concerns are not severe. 
Labor market conditions remain strong. The rebound in payroll growth in June after a 
weaker reading in May puts average monthly job growth at about 170,000 over the past three 
months and for the year-to-date. This is a step-down from last year’s strong pace of over 
220,000 per month, but it’s well above trend. The unemployment rate is 3.7 percent, near a 
50-year low. It has been running at or below 4 percent for the past 16 months. The labor force 
participation rate has been near 63 percent over the past three years despite a downward trend 
driven by demographics. Growth in average hourly earnings has remained stable and is at a 
higher level than a few years ago. Cleveland staff analysis, which updates analysis from the 
Atlanta Fed using their wage tracker data, indicates that in recent months, wage growth has 
picked up more for job stayers than for job changers. This, together with stability over the past 
year in the JOLTS quits rate, is consistent with reports given by business contacts that the 
tightness in labor markets has made them focus more on retaining the workers they have. 
Inflation is running below our 2 percent target, but recent readings have begun to firm. 
PCE inflation rebounded to 2.3 percent in the second quarter, and core PCE inflation moved up 
to 1.8 percent. Over the past year, trimmed mean and median measures based on either PCE or 
CPI inflation have been generally stable and have averaged 2 percent or higher. For example, in 
June, median CPI inflation was 2.8 percent, and trimmed mean CPI inflation was 2.1 percent. 

The Cleveland Fed’s experimental median PCE inflation measure was 2.7 percent in June. 
Long-run inflation expectations have remained broadly stable, but several measures have ticked 
up since our previous meeting. Market-based inflation compensation readings edged up, while 
the Cleveland Fed’s five-year, five-year-forward measure of inflation compensation was little 
changed between May and June. 
At the time of our June meeting, there had been concerns about a softening in the latest 
monthly readings of longer-run household inflation expectations from the University of 
Michigan and New York Fed surveys. The latest readings in each survey moved up. Now, to 
better understand inflation dynamics over recent years, the Cleveland staff adopted Stock and 
Watson’s methodology to construct cyclical and acyclical components of core PCE inflation 
based on a finer disaggregation of the data than in other research. Instead of 14 components, 
they looked at 154 components. The cyclical component of core inflation, which by definition is 
correlated with measures of labor market slack, accounts for about 40 percent of core PCE. 
Results based on the finer disaggregation reveal that cyclical core PCE inflation has 
continued to rise as labor markets have tightened. This resolves a puzzle in earlier results, which 
were based on less-aggregated data, that suggested that the cyclical component began to flatten 
out in 2017 despite ongoing improvement in the labor markets. Cyclical core PCE inflation is 
now essentially back to its pre-recession level, and over the past three months it’s been running 
at slightly above 3 percent, its highest level in the post-crisis period. The Cleveland Fed staff’s 
vector autoregression (VAR) analysis indicates that cyclical inflation will continue to firm, 
which should help overall PCE inflation return gradually to our 2 percent objective. 
On balance, I view the incoming information on the economy as consistent with my 
modal forecast of output growth slowing toward trend, which I estimate at 2 percent; a strong 

labor market with the unemployment rate remaining below 4 percent; and inflation gradually 
rising to 2 percent. While there remain downside risks to the forecast, including slowing global 
growth, the trade situation, geopolitical concerns in the Middle East, and a potentially disorderly 
Brexit, in my view, there’s less risk that a significant weakening of the economy could be 
emerging, and it’s more likely that the U.S. economy will continue to show some resiliency to 
possible negative shocks. In this context, as I did at our June meeting, I continue to prefer to 
gather more information on how the economy is evolving and continue to assess our outlook and 
its associated risks before making any adjustments in our policy rate. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Since our last meeting, data on the real economy 
have been largely positive. Consumers are spending, firms are hiring, and workers are being 
drawn into the labor force. And, as President Rosengren noted and President Mester echoed, 
some of the uncertainties that we were worried about have been tempering a little bit. These 
developments affirm the underlying momentum in domestic growth and increase my confidence 
that the expansion will be sustained and that we are resilient to the things that we were worried 
about. This characterization is echoed by my contacts, who are still executing on what they call 
their plan A’s but are making sure that their plan B’s are still ready—right in front, in fact. 
I know there’s a lot of disagreement around the table about this, but I view the news on 
inflation as less bright. Friday’s GDP release showed that, over the past four quarters, core PCE 
prices have risen only 1.5 percent. Of course, as the Board staff notes, some of this weakness 
may be transitory. And recent signs of modest firming in the monthly inflation series are 
encouraging. But we have seen several false victories during the expansion, with inflation 

briefly hitting our 2 percent target only to slip back down again. So these positive monthly 
readings do not make me especially confident that we are on track to achieve our inflation goal. 
Most importantly, our models of future inflation are not perfect, and I increasingly put 
weight on the notion that more persistent, rather than transitory, factors are at play. These 
factors may be hard to pin down in our current models. But the consistent one-sided misses of 
our inflation forecasts suggest that we should consider their presence and their potential effects 
even if we don’t know yet how to precisely quantify them. And as Governor Clarida mentioned, 
one possible persistent factor is that we are just wrong on the gaps, that u* is just lower than we 
think for reasons that are secular or not yet showing through. This would make the output gap 
smaller and explain one of the reasons for the consistent one-sided misses of our inflation 
forecasts. 
Whatever the reasons, repeated misses on realized inflation create downside risks to 
expected inflation. Indeed, in the past few months, inflation option markets have posted notable 
declines in the likelihood of inflation reaching 2 percent or higher in the next five years. With all 
of that said, it is still tempting—and you hear this a lot in the public—to discount small misses in 
inflation even if they persist for many years and especially when they are related to potentially 
idiosyncratic factors. 
A few of my contacts put it this way: “What’s a couple of tenths? A tenth here, a tenth 
there.” That’s what they like to say. But lessons drawn from the experience of other countries, 
most notably Japan, provide a cautionary tale, and new work by researchers in San Francisco 
illustrate the risks. Specifically, they analyzed the response of Japanese inflation expectations 
since 2013 to monetary reforms implemented under Abenomics. The reform started with an 
adoption of an explicit 2 percent target for inflation in 2013, followed by sequential QE 

programs, negative interest rates, yield curve control, and an eventual commitment to overshoot 
the 2 percent inflation target. The staff analysis in San Francisco shows that, overall, the reforms 
did little to boost inflation expectations even upon announcement. In fact, after the introduction 
of negative interest rates, inflation expectations actually fell slightly most likely, or at least 
somewhat likely, because the move was seen as a negative signal about the BOJ’s inflation 
outlook. 
The key “takeaway” from this analysis is that, once the inflation anchor drifts down, it is 
very hard for monetary policy actions to raise it back up even if you go all in. And I don’t think 
we’re Japan, and I actually don’t currently share the Board staff’s view that the U.S. anchor has 
already dropped. But I am worried it could drift and that we look more like Japan in the 1990s 
when they started to see a drift—not like Japan today, when it has drifted quite a bit and it’s hard 
to get it back up. And so with real GDP growth projected to slow to trend in the United States 
and global headwinds blowing against us, this poses additional downside risks to realized 
inflation, which then, of course, feeds back into inflation expectations. 
Now, thinking about global conditions, let me briefly turn to China, which looms large, 
especially if you’re sitting on the West Coast. There has been a lot of discussion about the 
question, is China’s growth slowing in coming years? And China’s reported growth shows a 
gradual slowdown, but it has been remarkably smooth since 2013. In fact, this was noted in a 
March Board briefing, which characterizes the greatest moderation ever recorded among two 
countries. So that’s quite an accomplishment. So the question is, can we take the reported 
statistics at face value? In building on previous work, researchers at the San Francisco Fed tried 
to provide an assessment of this. They developed an alternative growth index using China’s 

trading partner export data, which is collected outside of China and not dependent at all on 
China’s statistical agencies. 
Their alternative index confirms that the official Chinese figures have been implausibly 
smooth, remarkably smooth. So they are not sure the Great Moderation is as great as it seems. 
They find that there is much more volatility in the GDP figure since 2013, and they also find—
and this is the important part, I think—a much more pronounced slowdown over the past two 
years than the Chinese data suggest. This supports the idea that China might be slowing more 
than we think based on simply the published GDP data. It also aligns with the views of my 
contacts who have many investments in China and travel there quite frequently, and they are 
telling me increasingly that there is a risk of a greater slowdown in China—not a falling off the 
charts, but a greater slowdown than you might project simply looking at the GDP data. 
The arguments that underlie that are that less-expensive production opportunities in 
newly emerging markets, along with higher tariffs on Chinese-produced goods, have simply 
prompted companies with Chinese operations and sourcing activities to shift outside of China 
and into other countries—Vietnam and Cambodia being two of the beneficiaries. And China still 
has a hand in many of these industries. In fact, they are funding the development in many of 
those industries. But the move slowed job and income growth for Chinese workers, and this 
slows the chance that the Chinese domestic economy will continue to grow, and that its 
consumption-based move will be as fast as it had hoped. So, on balance, these factors make my 
contacts and me a little more bearish on China than bullish on China even if the trade disputes 
are resolved in the way that we hope they will be. 
Overall, I see the domestic momentum in the economy as resilient. It showed itself to be 
resilient. But we are still leaning against slower global real growth and a lot of uncertainty that 

just changes the name, but it continues to be uncertainty. Now it’s Brexit. And if you think 
about those things, I project that those headwinds will slow our economy to trend growth even if 
we’re moving against it. And with inflation not at 2 percent yet, it doesn’t give a lot of impetus 
for it getting to 2 percent without further policy accommodation. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my remarks this afternoon I’m going to try 
to make a case for the claim that we are currently well on track to achieving our dual mandate. 
The abatement of some of the uncertainties and risks buffeting the economy; the positive profile 
of recent economic data for job gains, consumer spending, and, in my view, inflation; and, 
perhaps most importantly, evidence on how firms appear to be navigating these uncertainties 
give me added confidence in my outlook for the economy. In fact, if it were a submission round, 
I would be penciling in modest markups to my forecasts of real GDP growth and inflation. 
Now, given the uncertainties that still exist and not being one to tempt fate, I am not 
going to suggest that we hang a “Mission Accomplished” banner behind the lectern before the 
Chairman’s next press conference. But I do think our primary message should be that the 
economy is, and looks like it will remain, in a good place. 
Reports from Sixth District contacts continue to indicate that business sentiment is 
favorable. Most contacts noted they are on track to meet or exceed their revenue targets for 2019 
and that recent developments have not knocked them off course. On balance, firms are slightly 
more upbeat now relative to the previous two cycles, and I am attributing that modest 
improvement in sentiment in part to the de-escalation of trade tensions with Mexico and China 
that happened last month. 

I’d like to make a few specific points regarding trade policy uncertainty and its effect on 
firm decisionmaking. In a recently updated paper titled “The Economic Effects of Trade Policy 
Uncertainty,” researchers from the International Finance Division at the Board find that the 
recent rise in trade policy uncertainty has been a modest drag on the aggregate level of 
investment over the past year or so. This conclusion dovetails both qualitatively and 
quantitatively with the estimates my staff and their collaborators derived from businesses’ 
responses earlier this year to our Survey of Business Uncertainty, or SBU, as we call it. Along 
with the fact that, historically, our survey responses have been good predictors of actual firm 
behavior, I take the consistency of our survey results with the International Finance team’s 
analysis as some validation for the information we obtained from this instrument. That’s 
important because of what our recent results suggest about anticipated conditions in the future. 
In contrast to a large spike in trade policy uncertainty in June, which would suggest a 
larger effect on aggregate investment, firms in our SBU panel and throughout my District do not 
appear to be reacting more intensely to trade tensions and uncertainty. In the July round of the 
SBU, we asked a broad set of special questions probing firms on how the trade landscape has 
affected their capital expenditures, their sales revenue, and their employment outcomes over the 
first half of the year. We further asked about expectations regarding those variables. Our 
preliminary results continue to suggest modest effects on capital expenditures in line with the 
responses to a similar question we fielded last year. Further, our respondents indicated only 
minor effects on sales revenue and employment. Overall, the SBU’s Business Expectations 
Index, which aggregates the results over the responses to capital expenditure, sales, and 
employment questions, held up in a relatively favorable territory. And, consistent with the 

staff’s trade policy uncertainty measure, this survey’s measure of business uncertainty actually 
fell moderately in July. 
Perhaps as noteworthy is that the subindex on capital expenditure expectations remains at 
a healthy level. These survey results were largely echoed by my contacts and directors. To be 
sure, there are specific companies and sectors where the effect is significant. One director leads 
a firm that is definitely a casualty of retaliatory tariffs and slowing growth in Asia, but his 
experience is not representative. In fact, the conversation about the travails of his business at our 
board meeting was instructive. He gave a clear indication that hits taken by his company will 
eventually have downstream effects on his suppliers, even though those businesses are not 
themselves directly exposed to international trade. 
As it happened, some of our other directors, representing health-care and government 
contractor sectors, are customers of some of those very same suppliers, and they indicated that 
they will be very happily picking up some of that slack. Though perhaps not a representative 
conversation, I think that back-and-forth captured the essence of the anecdotal reports over this 
intermeeting period. Pockets of weakness clearly exist, and they will be felt. But, on average, 
businesses are moving forward and expect, if not last year’s growth in sales, employment, and 
capital spending, a solid and satisfactory performance on all counts over the next year or so. 
I want to be clear that these expectations should not come off as Pollyanna-ish. It is lost 
on no one that trade tensions have yet to actually come to full resolution, and there is full 
recognition that tensions could easily intensify. Yet here I have gathered that the protracted 
period of uncertainty has prompted firms to engage in contingency planning and, in some cases, 
reconfigure their supply chains as a defense position. Should tariffs and trade restrictions 

intensify, these firms may be less exposed to the fallout than they might have been, say, a 
year ago. 
Having staked out a relatively sanguine position on one-half of our mandate, let me keep 
my streak going by pivoting to my read on inflation and inflation expectations. To cut to the 
chase, I see inflation as trending toward target, and I still see inflation expectations as being 
reasonably well anchored. I am not convinced that the ex-food-and-energy core PCE inflation 
statistic has been giving us a very good read on the inflation trend. Because the treatment of 
outliers in this measure is ad hoc, it can still be relatively noisy. And this was the case earlier 
this year when a sharp decline in financial services prices pushed core PCE inflation lower. 
Trimmed mean inflation measures, like those produced by the Cleveland and Dallas 
Fedderal Reserve Banks, are much more robust to these sharp relative price changes and, as a 
result, are more likely to reflect the true underlying inflation trend. In fact, in formal statistical 
tests, these measures are more accurate than measures that exclude food and energy in 
forecasting inflation a year or so out. It is important, in my view, then, that the Dallas trimmed-
mean measure is signaling goal-consistent inflation in the period ahead. And that’s been the case 
officially, at least through May. And this morning’s underlying data suggest that it still looks 
like the trimmed mean is trending at target. 
In addition, core PCE inflation continues its rebound—another strong suggestion that the 
weakness we saw earlier this year was indeed transitory and another data point in favor of a 
trimmed mean approach. Inflation expectations are at least as important as the current 
underlying inflation trend in shaping our ability to meet our price stability objective over the 
longer run. And, like underlying inflation measures, not all measures of inflation expectations 
are created equal. 

My staff compared the inflation-forecasting performance of three different survey 
measures—surveys of near-term expectations of professionals, of households, and of 
businesses—with the market-based measures of inflation compensation derived from the 
Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS. Of the four, the headline and core inflation 
predictions of professional forecasters tend to be considerably more accurate than those 
generated by household survey expectations or breakeven market-based measures. 
Further, my team found that, over an admittedly small sample, business inflation 
expectations have been about as accurate as professional forecasters in forecasting future 
inflation in recent years. The inflation expectations of forecasters are little changed and appear 
to be reasonably well anchored. The same is true of firm expectations derived from the Atlanta 
Fed’s Survey of Business Inflation Expectations. 
In sum, I expect the performance of the economy to continue to be solid and for inflation 
to progress toward our target. This view substantially colors my opinion about the appropriate 
policy course or, even more importantly, our communications about the decisions we make at 
this meeting. But more on that tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. At our previous meeting, we flagged downside 
risks in the environment. Since then, the information we’ve received suggests that outlook has 
gotten a bit brighter. Strong employment growth in June lowered the risk that the labor market 
was lagging. Consumer confidence remains high. Robust data on consumer spending in May 
and June supported optimistic forecasts of PCE this year. 
While trade negotiations are far from settled, the threatened escalation has not happened. 
The debt ceiling and budget deals have been negotiated. The stock market hit a record high. 

Nonetheless, investment was sluggish in the second quarter. Our Fifth District Survey of 
Manufacturing Activity dropped meaningfully into negative territory. But as I speak to them, I 
hear that businesses have been more resilient than I had anticipated six weeks ago. 
As President Daly suggests, my contacts tell me their investment plans have continued, 
though, to be fair, with a somewhat more cautious posture. The only exceptions are a couple 
with significant foreign exposure, reflecting the international weakness we see. This data profile 
is not inconsistent with a return to trend growth. 
We’ve all been debating what to make of the relatively modest wage growth 
accompanying our low unemployment rates. I would point to divergence between entry and 
managerial levels. Entry hiring is very tight, especially for production employees like tellers or 
retail clerks or food service. Even though you’d expect lower skills late cycle, we hear multiple 
reports of increases in entry-level wages, most recently Bank of America’s move to $20 per 
hour. The Current Population Survey earnings data support this, with growth at the bottom of 
the earnings distribution faster than at the median for all demographic splits. 
Now, I’d agree, managerial and professional hiring is different. Employers also find that 
job market tight but can bear the pain of an elongated search. They tell me they’re choosing to 
delay hiring rather than escalate wages, as suggested by the gap in openings versus hires in the 
JOLTS data. In the tightest sectors like construction, I’m hearing firms turn down or defer work 
rather than escalating wages and increasing hiring. And the point I’m trying to make is that full 
employment can and is affecting growth, not just wages. 
We, of course, are spending a lot of time discussing inflation. I might offer three 
perspectives. First, like everyone else, I’d love to have a symmetric distribution around our 
2 percent target. I have a hard time seeing current levels as an urgent problem. The past three 

monthly readings of core PCE are over, not below, our target, at 2½ percent. The Dallas 
trimmed mean remains steady at 2 percent. The Tealbook’s inflation forecast, I believe, still has 
core inflation over 2 percent for the second half of the year, even with a flat federal funds rate 
assumption. The first-quarter slow readings had to be affected by the confidence shock we had 
at the end of last year and its effect on firms’ willingness to push and accept price increases. The 
data certainly aren’t perfect, but this close to our inflation target feels really close to me. I liked 
the Chicago conference comments by Sharon Kozicki of the Bank of Canada, which suggested to 
me that if we are in the range of our inflation target and headed in the right direction, we 
shouldn’t worry too much. 
Second, some indicators of inflation expectations have risen since our previous meeting, 
perhaps, to be fair, related to changing expectations on our rate path. More fundamentally, as I 
talk to contacts, I get no sense that they see us off target, nor that their expectations are moving 
down. I do worry that the more we talk about low inflation, the higher the risk is that we will 
change that perception. 
Finally, to the extent that you see these inflation levels as a problem, I do believe it’s a 
structural issue in the context of anchored expectations. Firms have embedded perceptions about 
the reaction functions of their competitors and their customers. Over the past couple of decades, 
they have gotten used to limited pricing power in the environment we’ve supported. Low-priced 
big box stores have taken share and driven supplier prices down. Purchasing departments have 
become more talented and aggressive, leveraging global, lower-cost competitors and private 
label. 
Internet transparency has made it easy for customers to shop around. The growth in 
government has introduced an ever-larger, low-priced purchaser. The reduction in firm exit 

rates, perhaps supported by loose lending terms and low interest rates, could be limiting industry 
rationalization and its resulting effect on pricing power. These pricing paradigms won’t change 
quickly on an aggregate basis. Contacts hear us talk about overall numbers, but their pricing 
behavior and resulting inflation is being driven more by the supply-and-demand dynamics in 
their particular sectors. 
Are competitors entering or exiting? Are supply costs increasing or decreasing? Are 
customers and supply markets globalizing or localizing? Can value propositions be defined that 
capture greater customer surplus? Our moves aren’t changing these parameters, or at least not 
quickly. These structural headwinds are consistent with the long lag we’ve seen in transmission 
of policy through to inflation. 
Tomorrow I’ll come back to the challenge of using moderate moves in short-term interest 
rates to intervene in these structural dynamics. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Regarding the forecast, I am in general 
agreement with the staff’s near-term forecast of economic activity. But I am a bit more 
confident that inflation will gradually return to target. I still have concerns, like others do, as 
inflation has remained stubbornly below target. Also of concern is that market-based inflation 
expectations continue to lie below target. However, as others have noted, some of the recent 
readings on inflation have shown an uptick, and inflation appears to be moving in the right 
direction. Even if the pace is excruciatingly slow, it is moving. 
The upgrade in the staff’s economic projection appears consistent with the most recent 
data, and I share the staff’s view. The upgrade is also consistent with what I’m hearing from 
contacts in the Third District. Although the Third District did not experience a strong 

bounceback in employment, unemployment remains historically low, and the unemployment rate 
has fallen to that of the nation. As well, we are seeing increases in the participation rate. 
For manufacturing, our business survey recovered markedly in July, with orders, 
shipments, and employment returning to healthy territory. The stronger readings are driven by 
fewer firms indicating they were seeing a decline in activity rather than more firms saying they 
saw an increase in activity. Price indexes, however, were quite soft. 
Regarding the future, respondents are somewhat optimistic. And, as others have noted, 
they continue to plan for additional capital expenditures and employment growth. One 
diversified manufacturer, one of our contacts who serves global markets, indicated that the third 
quarter looks like it’s going to remain soft, but he is starting to see a strong pickup in fourth-
quarter orders across the globe. 
We’re also hearing reports of midcycle wage increases in order to retain workers. And 
it’s interesting that people are seeing a lot of wage pressure now in the range of $18 to $25 an 
hour. However, economic uncertainty, especially concerning trade, continues to weigh 
negatively on our business community. 
Now, regarding services, we saw a rebound in our nonmanufacturing sector as well. 
However, some of that optimism appears to have waned in the service sector. On the downside, 
residential real estate markets are moribund, with no sign of pickup in activity. For example, 
real estate transaction counts have turned down, and they appear to be a leading indicator of 
housing activity. 
A contact indicated that revenue in her building supply business that serves that market is 
also down. But just as an aside, she did report she had a very interesting week. In one week, she 
had her first offer to be paid in Bitcoin, and in that same week an Amish customer came in and 

paid with a barrel of cash. And I literally mean a barrel of cash. [Laughter] So there is a change 
in technology going on in our society. 
As an aside, recent work in Philadelphia and elsewhere has highlighted the continued 
decline in dynamism in our economy in terms of new business formation and labor mobility, 
both of which are contributing factors to declining productivity. And I raise this because at our 
recent policy briefing, we had a very interesting presentation on declining geographic labor 
mobility. Mobility has been declining steadily for 30 years and is largely the result of decreased 
out-mobility from the west and the south. This is largely due to the convergence of population 
growth rates and the increased proportion of the population that is now native to those regions. 
The increase in the percentage of people who are not only born in those regions but whose 
parents were born in the region is associated with an increased desire for people to stay put. In 
some sense, it increases the utility of remaining where one is and, therefore, is part of an optimal 
household decision. 
The study found no evidence that there has been a negative effect on struggling local 
labor markets or on short-run population movements. It is not that the population fails to 
relocate when needed, but that there is simply less need to relocate. Thus, the decline in mobility 
is largely due to these optimal staying positions. And the reason I raise this is, these results and 
others add to my growing sense that it is these types of structural factors that are increasingly 
important and, of course, not within our reach given our mandate. 
And I think what we’re seeing, whether it’s these factors or the research on inflation by 
Stock and Watson and others that President Mester and others have talked about, is that these 
things seem to not have the same reaction to our moves. And this is something that I think is 
worthy of further study as we move forward. 

So, to summarize, the District’s economy is growing modestly, but that growth is almost 
entirely driven by the consumer, which is exactly what we are seeing nationally. The most 
recent data have reduced much of the pessimism that I expressed at our June meeting, and it 
looks like the recovery still has room to run. So more on how that affects my policy stance 
tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. My contacts were mixed this round. On balance, 
they indicate that growth is proceeding at trend or slightly faster, with no inflation pressures. 
Starting with the commentary about growth, in discussing our discount rate recommendation, a 
couple of my banking directors reported that their clients in manufacturing and construction were 
doing quite well. They said concern over the global economy was holding back capital 
expenditure some but wasn’t taking the sheen off of the generally bullish business environment. 
Both of the major automakers we spoke to this round were satisfied with the recent pace 
of vehicle sales. They remain positive about the near-term outlook, with sales in the second half 
of the year expected to run a little bit above the first-half rate. And a large temporary help 
agency noted that domestic demand was holding up well, and they weren’t making any changes 
to their outlook for the United States. 
Regarding the less positive news, this same temporary help firm reported some pretty bad 
numbers for their business in Europe, particularly Germany. The weakness did not appear to be 
intensifying, but they won’t be able to tell for sure until they see the size of the seasonal pickup 
in activity following the regular August vacation downtime. 
There also were some downbeat reports about manufacturing activity in the United 
States, in contrast to what I heard from the bankers. Though I’m not pushing the panic button 

yet, one of my directors who runs a large manufacturing conglomerate has become more 
nervous, and many of his counterparts have seen softening demand in recent weeks. And a 
major steelmaker was quite downbeat. Demand was down in every sector except energy for 
them. More generally, there is a sense of fragility among my manufacturing contacts. As one 
major equipment producer put it, although their business is currently doing well, the cumulative 
effects from prolonged business uncertainties could push the sector into a downturn following 
one more bad event. 
With regard to wages and prices, my temporary help contact continued to see the same 
modest wage growth in his domestic business that he’s been reporting for some time. Although 
he noted that tight labor markets aren’t generating a lot of wage pressure in the United States, he 
does a lot of business in Europe. And, as he put it, the Phillips curve is alive and well, at least in 
the Czech Republic, where the unemployment rate is low and wages are growing at a rate of 
about 8 percent. 
On the price front, the steelmaker reported that prices for basic steel products have ticked 
up a bit in recent weeks but were still down a good deal from last year. He also made a point of 
noting that prices today were lower than they were just prior to when steel tariffs were invoked 
in March 2018. Ironic, isn’t it? And an equipment manufacturer said that while still high, at 
least transportation logistics costs were not rising more. So, all in all, I heard nothing from my 
contacts to suggest building wage or price pressures. 
Regarding the national outlook, combining my contact reports with the incoming data, we 
came up with a fairly decent outlook for growth this year. The numbers we put together are 
similar to those in the Tealbook, with real GDP rising a bit under 2½ percent in 2019 and the 
unemployment rate ending the year around 3.6 percent. This is a moderately stronger forecast 

than I had in June. I also think the near-term downside risks have abated some. True, global 
uncertainties remain, and they are having a notable imprint on cap-ex, but at least the latest 
orders numbers look a little bit better. Furthermore, businesses aren’t showing any hesitancy in 
hiring, which reduces the risk of global uncertainties spilling over to the consumer sector. I 
almost feel like I should be on that side of the table. [Laughter] 
And the downside risks from the potential 2019 fiscal cliff now appear to be off the table. 
However, over a longer period, there still seems to be an ongoing fragility in business confidence 
that could spark material cutbacks in activity if trade talks or other headline events turn sour. It 
does seem that important downside risks remain, but it’s hard to envision any notable potentially 
offsetting upside tailwinds. 
What about inflation? We have had a couple of good monthly readings on consumer 
prices. That’s encouraging. The incoming data have pushed our time-series model forecast up 
somewhat, but the model still generally projects inflation to be flat at around 1¾ percent, similar 
to the Tealbook’s low underlying trend. And there simply isn’t any meaningful evidence of 
building inflation pressures. As I noted, wage growth is modest, and commodity prices are 
restrained. And TIPS breakevens and other indicators of inflation expectations have not moved 
in any meaningful manner. They are still too low. 
Our forecast has inflation moving up to target and then overshooting some by 2021, but 
this relies on aggressive policy actions, including an explicit acknowledgement of policies aimed 
at lifting inflation to its symmetric target. Indeed, if we don’t do something definitive soon or 
get bailed out by simple luck, I fear inflation will remain mired below target for the foreseeable 
future. More on this tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 

MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our Dallas Fed base case for 2019 U.S. 
GDP growth is now approximately 2 to 2¼ percent. This forecast has been adjusted downward 
over the past three months, primarily because of the effect of heightened trade tensions and 
decelerating rates of global growth. I would emphasize, though, that much of the deceleration in 
growth from 2018 and 2019 was expected because of the waning of fiscal stimulus. So even 
though the trade tensions weren’t expected, we did still expect growth to decelerate. 
In the June meeting I said the risks to our forecast were to the downside. My own sense 
today is that, due to the strength of the U.S. consumer and some time for businesses to adjust 
psychologically to heightened uncertainty, the U.S. growth outlook is stabilizing, although 
there’s still, based on discussions with our contacts, an underlying fragility, which is affecting 
business investment. 
To that point, contacts in the 11th District particularly cite the threatened trade tariffs 
against Mexico as having been the event that really jarred their thinking about the economic 
outlook for their businesses. While China and other trade uncertainties certainly had an effect, it 
was the estimated financial effect of the tariffs on Mexico, if they’d been enacted, that would 
have had a material effect on a number of businesses that we speak with. And they haven’t yet 
recovered; the jarring effect of the threat has made them begin to believe that trade uncertainty, 
even with countries we have trade agreements with, is likely to be a persistent feature of 
managing their businesses. 
As a consequence, many describe actions to revisit capital spending, reassess supply 
chains and logistical arrangements, and generally operate in a much more cautious manner. With 
these conversations and our Dallas Fed surveys, all of this has convinced me that trade 
uncertainty now is just more likely to be a more persistent headwind for economic growth and 

uncertainty is going to be with us. I was hopeful that trade uncertainty would be more positively 
resolved. But I also believe that businesses have a real capacity to psychologically adjust to this. 
And because of that, most of our contacts report a solid business outlook, albeit at a more 
moderate pace than in 2018 and certainly a more moderate pace than they might have expected 
just three or four months ago. 
Our Dallas Fed contacts continue to report difficulty finding workers as a top challenge. 
This is particularly for companies in the more rural parts of our District as well as smaller 
companies that are unable to offer promotion opportunities, certain types of employment 
benefits, as well as a level of job security and stability that can be offered by larger companies. 
Across the board, company contacts report to us needing to pay higher wages at the low end—
and I mean the $12 to $15 range as the low end—as well as for skilled workers, but larger 
companies report no substantial issues in finding or retaining workers to fill jobs in the middle. 
And by the middle, I mean $25 per hour plus benefits. 
Regarding inflation, our Dallas trimmed-mean measure of inflation, which we 
recalculated in response to this morning’s releases, continues to run at approximately 2 percent. 
We continue to expect it to end the year in the neighborhood of 2 percent. I would continue to 
emphasize differentiating between the cyclical and structural aspects of inflation. I believe with 
growth at or above potential, cyclical inflationary forces continue to firm. 
I continue to believe, however, that an intensification of the structural forces of 
technology, technology-enabled disruption, and globalization are limiting the pricing power of 
businesses. And to the extent our contacts are experiencing wage pressure, they report to us it’s 
just as likely these pressures are going to translate into margin erosion rather than price 
increases. 

I would say that a substantial number of our contacts are recently pointing out to us and 
to me that they have a number of issues with trade uncertainty, global growth deceleration, 
challenges with their workforce, and competitive pressures, but they emphasize—a little more 
vocally recently—that availability and cost of capital are not among their operating concerns. 
And, increasingly, some of our contacts are citing low cost of capital as potentially 
having a negative effect on their industry dynamics. And what do they mean by that? Allowing 
zombie companies to continue to survive. Lowering the discount rate for those competitors who 
are not making a profit and who are disrupting their businesses and, by and large, undermining 
capital discipline. I am hearing that raised by our business contacts more. 
Having said all of that, basically what you’re hearing from me is, I am, I guess, sanguine 
about real GDP and inflation. There is one thing out there that I am increasingly concerned 
about, and Governor Clarida talked about, and that is market-determined interest rates vis-à-vis 
the federal funds rate. 
First, as has been mentioned, we all know that a material percentage of government 
bonds globally are now negative yielding. In addition, apparently in response to recent trade 
tension intensification and decelerating rates of global real growth, U.S. Treasury yields have 
declined, all along the curve. I am sensitive to the possibility that some of this—just some of 
it—may be a response to central bank rhetoric. But I believe that a good bit of the decline, along 
with the inversion of the 3-month/10-year yield curve, is due to an expectation of diminished 
prospects for global growth. And I have begun to believe that this situation is likely to persist 
and is worth paying attention to in thinking of prospects for future economic growth and in 
formulating monetary policy. This is a nice way of saying that the level of the federal funds rate 
is out of alignment with the rest of the Treasury curve. 

Now, if I look at this a different way and just step back—with my team, we have gone 
back and looked over the past number of years of economic growth, and we looked at pre-2017. 
For a number of years we were basically in a 2 percent growth economy, maybe a 1¾ to 
2 percent growth economy. And what happened in 2017 is, we had the prospect of fiscal 
stimulus; we had the actual passing of substantial fiscal stimulus. Before that prospect of fiscal 
stimulus, I have to remind myself that the target range for the federal funds rate was at 25 to 50 
basis points. We then had our increases in 2017 and 2018. We got to a range of 2¼ to 2½ 
percent. 
In my view, we are now—I am not thrilled with the way we have gotten here, because of 
trade tensions, but—we may now well be in a 2 percent, maybe 2¼ percent growth economy. 
The question, then, before the house is, in that regard, and setting aside the fiscal stimulus that 
we have experienced over the past couple of years, are market-determined rates out of alignment 
with this growth potential of the U.S. economy? 
In my own view—and I’ve looked back to what Treasury interest rates were in 2016 and 
2015—I’m not sure today’s rates are out of alignment with that. I do think the federal funds rate, 
though, is out of alignment with those rates, and I do believe we’re at the point at which it’s 
worth paying attention to, because I believe if this situation is allowed to persist, it will 
ultimately affect financial conditions negatively, which in turn will create headwinds for 
economic growth. And so that’s the big issue that I think should be addressed, which we’ll talk 
more about tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The outlook for the 10th District economy is 
little changed since our June meeting. Business contacts remain positive, while noting a slower 

and more typical pace of growth compared with 2018. Our surveys of services and 
manufacturing activity reported flat activity in June and July, but the majority of contacts tell us 
that they have not changed their plans for 2019. 
District employment continues to expand at a moderate pace across our seven states. 
Unemployment rates remain at historically low levels, and labor force participation rates have 
stabilized for prime-age individuals. Given the current stage of the business cycle, job gains 
remain quite healthy, with employment growth exceeding population growth in each of our 
states. 
Like the nation, the region’s residential construction and real estate sectors have slowed. 
Single-family permits are down about 16 percent compared with last year. And, although 
slightly below year-ago levels, home sales have improved over the past couple of months. Home 
prices continue to rise in every District state, but the pace of appreciation has slowed. 
Oil price volatility has increased in recent months, as markets weigh concerns about 
demand and geopolitical tensions. With oil prices just above breakeven levels, and natural gas 
prices well below, the District’s energy sector is not expected to contribute significantly to 
growth. Likewise, the agriculture sector shows no signs of a turnaround, with adverse weather 
issues and unresolved trade disputes with China. 
Regarding the national economy, my outlook is relatively unchanged from our June 
meeting. Incoming data suggest that the economy is expanding at a moderate pace but, as 
anticipated for some time, with less momentum than the stronger pace of growth last year. I 
expect real GDP growth to stabilize close to its trend rate in the medium term, the unemployment 
rate to stay at its current level, and inflation to remain subdued. 

The expansion relies heavily on solid growth in household spending. Recent readings on 
household consumption, in particular spending on durables, have rebounded from their weak 
readings in the first quarter. This bounceback in spending, coupled with continued high levels of 
consumer confidence, suggests that consumers generally feel optimistic about their economic 
prospects. 
Importantly, household spending continues to be supported by a robust labor market. 
The strong reading on June payrolls was a welcome rebound from the weak May report, 
suggesting that over the past three months employers added, on average, 170,000 jobs per month 
to their payrolls. This deceleration in payroll growth remains consistent with my modal outlook, 
which calls for a gradual deceleration of employment growth to levels more consistent with the 
pace of labor force growth by the end of 2020. 
In contrast to the relatively healthy consumer sector, both residential investment and 
some components of business investment have been a drag on real GDP growth. Residential 
investment contracted during the first half of this year, and new orders for core capital goods 
have been below shipments for six of the past seven months. This weaker investment picture is 
consistent with the June National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) survey, where 
the fraction of small businesses reporting a capital expenditure during the past six months has 
declined since the start of the year. Still, the net fraction of firms planning to increase 
employment in the next three months remains near its post-recession peaks. I hear a very similar 
story from my own business contacts. 
Weakness in business investment is consistent with a weaker global outlook. And 
spillover to the U.S. manufacturing sector has shown up in the new export orders component of 
the ISM manufacturing index. By contrast, current production and employment indicators in the 

services sector seem to be healthy and generally consistent with an economy slowing toward 
trend. 
The United States continues to import low inflation, and I expect this disinflationary 
influence to continue throughout the forecast horizon. Goods prices in the PCE price index 
continue to show deflation, owing to the large appreciation of the dollar and the resulting drop in 
import prices that began early last year. In contrast, services prices continue to rise at a stable 
rate over 2 percent. 
While I still see risk around my outlook for both real activity and inflation as tilted to the 
downside, I have been encouraged to see some firming in U.S. economic data since our June 
meeting, and fears of an escalation in U.S.–China trade tensions have been somewhat alleviated. 
The successful negotiation of a deal to increase federal spending and lift the debt ceiling is also a 
positive sign. The contours of weak business investment and a weak global outlook against the 
backdrop of healthy consumer spending and a strong labor market are reminiscent in a number of 
aspects to the 2015–16 period. During that time, resilient consumer spending sustained the 
economic expansion despite global headwinds and a slowdown in investment. 
Obviously, such an outcome cannot be assured in the context of today’s dynamics, so 
careful monitoring of these downside risks remains important in judging the appropriate stance 
of monetary policy in the months ahead. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. My baseline outlook for the domestic economy 
has not changed since the June meeting. I continue to expect output growth will slow this year 
but remain near or a little above its trend, and that the labor market will continue to show 
strength, with the unemployment rate holding near its current historical low. 

With regard to prices, incoming data confirm that the dip in inflation early in the year 
was transitory, but the pickup in monthly price increases in the second quarter was smaller than 
the staff had been anticipating. In particular, the 12-month change in core PCE prices through 
the end of June was just 1.6 percent. The year-over-year changes are expected to rise to 
1.8 percent this summer and to hold there through the end of the year. If this occurs, it will be 
close to where I had expected we would be back in June. 
In my assessment, some of the potential downside risks to the outlook have eased in 
recent weeks. For one, we saw a large increase in the payroll numbers in June, which appears to 
have confirmed that the May figures were not the precursor of a more material slowdown in job 
growth. Averaging over the first six months of the year, payroll gains have been about 172,000 
per month, which is a healthy amount that is sufficient to accommodate new entrants into the 
workforce without pushing up unemployment. 
Other indicators of labor demand also continue to signal strength. Further, the near-term 
risks related to negotiations over the debt ceiling may be resolved with the pending two-year 
federal budget deal. In addition to removing the near-term uncertainty about lifting the debt 
ceiling, the top-line budget authority levels in the agreement imply that government purchases 
will continue to contribute positively to real GDP growth in the current and coming years. 
And, finally, fears of escalation in trade tensions have faded somewhat since the June 
meeting, partly because of the discussions at the G-20 meetings in June. These discussions were 
viewed by many as moving in the direction of an eventual agreement. Even so, trade tensions 
remain elevated, and the outlook for trade agreements remains uncertain. 
Concerns about the slowdown in foreign activity have persisted. Although the outlook 
for activity in Canada brightened a little, the staff forecasts for the economic performance of 

several important trading partners, especially China and the United Kingdom, have been 
downgraded again. And, in the United Kingdom, this is complicated by new leadership and 
Brexit uncertainty. 
There’s also evidence that the uncertainties about global demand and trade policies are 
leading domestic businesses to delay or pull back on their planned investments. U.S. 
manufacturing output has been declining so far this year, and indicators of business sentiment 
and the data on new orders are pointing to weakness in business investment in the second half of 
this year. 
It seems likely that the softening in activity in the business sector is tied to trade tensions 
and concerns about demand from abroad. I’ve heard from several business contacts who are 
concerned about the upward cost pressures on their supply chains from abroad. I’ve also heard 
worries that export demand has weakened. And, to be sure, the incoming data suggest that 
economic activity abroad has continued to deteriorate, and this will present risks to the activity 
here at home. 
In addition, I continue to be concerned about the outlook for the agriculture sector. 
Agriculture producers, particularly farmers, continue to face significant challenges, and, overall, 
conditions have not improved. The extreme flooding and continued wet conditions in the 
Midwest and other regions have resulted in significant delays in planting, decisions to replant 
due to washed-out fields, or in some cases farmers have simply not been able to get seed in the 
ground, with waterlogged fields not being able to support the weight of planting machinery and 
tractors. 
On the brighter side, I have seen evidence in my recent travels and heard reports from 
farmers that despite the unfavorable conditions, crop growth, particularly where corn was 

planted, has surprised to the upside, and there is optimism for decent yields and higher 
commodity prices. Even so, the outlook for this year’s harvest is still highly uncertain, and many 
producers will rely heavily on the U.S. Department of Agriculture farm program payments. 
Another weak year for crop production will compound existing financial pressures for 
many farmers. Opportunities to export farm products have likely diminished, on account of the 
emergence of trade replacement routes and continued oversupply of commodities in recent years. 
There have been some positive developments on the pricing front. Corn prices, in particular, 
have moved up in recent weeks, likely reflecting the downgraded outlook for U.S. production. 
Even so, financial pressures on farmers continue to gradually increase. Nonperforming loans 
have continued to edge up, carryover debt has continued to rise for many borrowers, and loans 
have continued to be restructured because of cash flow shortages. 
In some cases, farmers with long-paid-off land are amortizing operating debt over 
decades, secured by that equity. While land values continue to hold at strong levels—and some 
reports indicate that they have increased—struggling producers who are determined to continue 
operations are taking on longer-term debt commitments in hopes of better outcomes. 
Elsewhere, the national statistics continue to suggest that households are faring well. 
Consumer spending growth rebounded strongly in the second quarter following the first quarter 
lull, and real disposable income is reported to have increased 3.2 percent over the past four 
quarters, a strong foundation for further gains in consumer spending in the second half of this 
year. Readings on consumer sentiment have also remained upbeat. 
In summary, while I have maintained my optimism that the U.S. economy is fairly well 
positioned to withstand the current economic headwinds from softening demand from abroad, I 
acknowledge that the downside risks have remained prominent. In particular, I see a risk that if 

the period of heightened uncertainty is prolonged, businesses will become more cautious and pull 
back on their long-term plans for hiring and capital investment, generating further negative 
feedback effects. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Regarding the local economy, growth in 
the Ninth District is characterized as modest. Most sectors are reporting doing well. Like in 
other regions of the country, firms are reporting difficulty hiring, with anecdotal evidence that 
firms are increasing overtime and overlooking attendance issues. One staffing firm reported that 
“worker attendance has never been worse, and our percentage of no-call, no-show, and walk-offs 
has never been higher.” We heard some evidence from contacts of wage increases of around $1 
an hour, around 8 percent, at typical low-wage jobs. It seems like low-wage workers have a lot 
of choices today, which is good. 
On a less positive note, manufacturing in the District is slowing. Several firms are 
reporting expansion plans being put on hold, and contacts point to uncertainty about market 
conditions amid trade tensions. And, throughout my region, the concerns in the agriculture 
sector, as Governor Bowman just said, are widespread. They’ve been going on for years. 
In the national economy, the intermeeting news has generally been positive, but inflation 
continues to run below target, and risks to the outlook remain large and tilted to the downside. 
Core inflation remains below target, as others have noted, with 12-month core PCE inflation 
coming in at 1.6 percent. Market-based five-year, five-year-forward inflation compensation has 
risen a bit since the June meeting but remains quite low by historical standards. 
Regarding the real economy, Friday’s GDP report confirmed that consumption growth 
remains strong, but it also confirms that investment is very weak, and concern over trade 

tensions is likely playing a significant role. No dramatic developments in the labor markets. 
Nonfarm payrolls bounced back in June from the weak May reading. Average hourly earnings 
growth remains stable, around 3.2 percent. The fact that wage growth is not rising indicates to 
me that the labor market is not overheating, and slack likely remains. 
Let me just take a second to endorse the Chair’s very clever comment in his testimony: 
“To call something ‘hot,’ you need to see some heat.” I couldn’t have said it better myself. 
[Laughter] A slowdown in the global economy seems ever clearer. The Tealbook has marked 
down Q2 forecasts for China, Mexico, and the euro zone. Inflation expectations appear to be 
falling globally. On Thursday, Mario Draghi described the euro-zone outlook as “getting worse 
and worse,” with manufacturing especially hard hit. The global PMI for manufacturing has 
dipped below 50, indicating likely contraction. 
Another indicator of a weak domestic and global outlook is low, long-term interest rates. 
The 10-year TIPS yield declined from over 1 percent around the end of last year to around 25 or 
30 basis points today. This echoes comments from President Kaplan suggesting the neutral 
interest rate is very low. So if we take a 10-year neutral rate of around 25 or 30 basis points, that 
says to me the neutral overnight real rate could be around 0 or maybe even negative. If the 
neutral overnight interest rate is 0, with inflation of around 1½ or 1¾ percent, that suggests that 
monetary policy is maybe 75 basis points, contractionary at this point. I don’t think that we 
should be in a contractionary policy stance. 
So, in summary, the U.S. economy seems to be doing okay overall, but businesses seem 
somewhat pessimistic. The global economy is weak, posing a threat to the continued U.S. 
expansion. Inflation continues to run below target, and monetary policy appears to be 
contractionary. Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. I’ve been broadly reassured by developments since our 
June meeting. Incoming data have confirmed consumer spending and employment are solid, 
financial conditions have been supportive, and important sources of policy uncertainty have been 
resolved. 
While global growth remains subdued, foreign authorities have pledged to provide 
additional support, and the important risks surrounding the leadership transition at the ECB have 
been resolved favorably. Even inflation expectations have improved, although it’s too early to 
take much comfort from this. 
Against these positive developments, inflation remains below target, and business 
investment remains soft. Let me briefly touch on each of these points. The economy has been 
doing well, bolstered by confident consumers and a strong job market. Real GDP rose at a 
2.1 percent annual rate last quarter following a 3.1 percent gain in the first quarter. And 
consumer spending posted an annualized gain of 4.3 percent last quarter. Recent data revisions 
boosted compensation notably, providing a positive support to consumer spending that will carry 
forward into the second half of this year. By contrast, equipment investment by businesses has 
been lackluster, and indicators of business sentiment have been soft, with the notable exception 
of President Harker’s District. [Laughter] 
The June job market data similarly provided reassurance that employment has continued 
to expand at a healthy pace. Payrolls have risen at about a 170,000 monthly pace over the past 
three months—more than enough to provide jobs for new entrants. The unemployment rate 
remains near a 50-year low, wages are growing a moderate pace, and the percentage of prime-
age adults who are employed is close to its pre-crisis peak. 

Importantly, initial claims for unemployment insurance have continued hovering around 
historic lows. After fluctuations earlier in the year, financial markets currently are more 
conducive to near-term growth in economic activity than they were early in the year, with 
borrowing rates low and the stock market at all-time highs. And, as of late last week, equity 
prices were up about 3 percent since our last meeting. Spreads of corporate bond yields over 
Treasury security yields were down 20 to 30 basis points, and the dollar had depreciated about ½ 
percent. The 10-year Treasury yield is little changed from the last time we met. 
As we turn from the outlook to the distribution of risks, recent weeks have seen important 
downside risks recede. The recent G-20 summit provided a critical shift in the landscape of 
potential trade conflict. While most observers now put little weight on the possibility that tariffs 
will be lifted, the prospect of a significant escalation of trade conflict with China has diminished 
notably. 
In addition to the reduction in trade tensions, the budget deal removes a very significant 
source of downside risk that was clouding the outlook for this year and next. The deal between 
the Administration and the Congress removes the threat of a near-term default and the sharp 
fiscal drag that would have resulted from the reimposition of sequester caps over the next 
two years. 
Despite the constructive change in tone on trade, business sentiment and investment plans 
will likely remain sensitive to uncertainty about trade and the global outlook. With the notable 
exception of Canada, the incoming data on activity and foreign economies continue to paint a 
disappointing picture. China posted a particularly weak second-quarter GDP reading. 
Purchasing managers’ indexes in many countries suggest outright contraction in the 

manufacturing sector. And Germany’s export-intensive growth has been weak, with the auto 
sector projected to exert a drag through the end of the year. 
Against the backdrop of that ongoing weakness in activity and shortfalls of inflation, a 
number of foreign central banks have added accommodation or indicated they would do so soon. 
This broad-based global easing should help bolster demand as it gains traction. 
Over the past month, Europe has successfully navigated a set of major leadership 
transitions. The ECB leadership transition removes a major risk by doubling down on the 
current policy posture and augers well for a continued proactive accommodative posture in the 
critically important euro-area economy. 
While the dollar depreciated over the intermeeting period, perhaps reflecting some 
reversal of earlier flight-to-quality pressures, the ongoing weakness abroad and resultant 
accommodation by foreign central banks suggest some risk of a future reversal of this 
depreciation. 
Downside risks remain, especially from abroad. I’ve already noted risks from China and 
Germany. The choice of the new British prime minister appears to increase the probability of a 
no-deal Brexit. Against this backdrop, many indicators of the risk of recession remain somewhat 
elevated, although they have generally come down since earlier in the year. That’s true not only 
for models that rely on the yield curve slope, but also for those that incorporate a broader set of 
indicators. And I’ll continue to watch those recession probability indicators carefully. 
This morning we received the June reading on PCE prices. We saw core PCE prices 
increasing 0.2 percent in June, and they are up 1.6 percent from a year earlier. While inflation 
has been disappointingly soft this year, on a three-month basis there is some evidence of rising 
momentum. 

The Board staff model that separates common from idiosyncratic factors affecting 
inflation suggests an increase of 1.75 percent in common core inflation over the past 12 months, 
and the Dallas trimmed mean measure of inflation is coming in still around 2.0 percent. We’ve 
also seen some encouraging developments on inflation expectations. The latest reading from the 
Michigan survey was the strongest we’ve seen in some time, and inflation compensation has also 
moved up. Three-year expectations in the New York Fed Survey of Consumer Expectations also 
ticked up. 
Nonetheless, recent developments still suggest underlying inflation is running below our 
2 percent objective, and it has done so over the past several years. A variety of statistical filters 
suggest underlying trend inflation is running around 1.8 percent, short of our target, and we need 
to remain visibly committed to moving inflation back up around 2 percent on a sustained basis. 
So, overall, the incoming data on the real economy are looking better than they were the 
last time we met. And some important downside risks, notably for trade and fiscal policy, have 
receded, at least for now. 
I see the case for providing additional accommodation today relative to the case for 
watchfully waiting as finely balanced. With financial conditions predicated on expectations of 
easing, I support proceeding with an adjustment in the policy rate, along with an end to the 
balance sheet roll-off to provide some insurance against those downside risks in the context of 
persistently soft inflation. In coming periods, however, we risk being pulled by market 
expectations rather than guided by the data. So it is important to use the occasion of this cut to 
gently realign market expectations and regain some optionality. 
As I will discuss tomorrow, I don’t currently see a need for further stimulus, and I’m 
somewhat reluctant to repeat the language that we used in June, which clearly signaled 

tomorrow’s cut. And I’d like to see whether we can find some language that recalibrates us a 
little bit back to the May–June statement. But that is tomorrow’s discussion. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you. And please note, Chairman, that after the Mahabharatan 
length of my first two interventions, my comments here are going to be mercifully brief. 
[Laughter] 
MR. CLARIDA. There will be a quiz. [Laughter] 
MR. EVANS. There was a gesture over there. 
MR. QUARLES. The macroeconomic environment seems as uncertain as at any time 
during my tenure on the Board. Some aspects of the domestic data look quite good. The labor 
market continues to be the best in generations, with low unemployment, better-than-expected 
labor force participation, and wage growth that’s not far from its pre-crisis trend. Obviously, 
with the labor market doing so well, it’s not surprising that consumption has remained robust, 
with second-quarter measures growing at one of the fastest rates in the past decade. 
On the other side, there are some domestic sectors that are a source of concern. In 
particular, as Governor Brainard and a number of you have noted, investment in equipment was 
almost flat through the first half of the year. And there are growing signs, as Shaghil discussed 
in the international briefing, that trade uncertainty is starting to weigh on investment plans. 
On the other hand from that, some of the most recent indicators—including the June 
advanced durables report—have popped up. I had thought, as President Kaplan suggested, that 
the threat of tariffs against Mexico in early May seemed to have moved us into a new normal of 

permanent trade uncertainty. However, the most recent indicators suggest that the threat of 
tariffs had a shock effect that may be fading. 
Now, the staff expects weakness in investment to persist, with a forecast of flat business 
investment in the second half. I think it’s significant that, as the Tealbook describes, this 
forecast is taking a lot of signal from a sharp decline in analysts’ expectations for longer-term 
profit growth. But this drop in profit expectations just reflects a turnaround from the sharp 
increase in growth expectations that followed the 2017 tax cuts. I think there’s a possibility that 
the sharp step-up in profit growth expectations following the tax cuts might be the anomaly here, 
as the tax cuts should have mostly affected the level of profits rather than the growth rate. 
So, overall, I think that the decline in profit expectations might be less informative than 
normal in the current circumstances, and that there might be some upside risk, as the economists 
say, to the staff’s outlook for falling investment. I am not giving up yet. So while the balance of 
domestic data is somewhat cloudy, the global economy more broadly is looking increasingly 
fragile, I think. Manufacturing data continue to disappoint. Growth appears to be slowing across 
a number of countries and regions. 
Trade tensions are likely a contributor to the slowdown but are probably not the whole 
story. In particular, it looks like autos, which have, at least up to now, largely avoided tariffs, 
have taken a hit across the advanced and emerging economies. More directly, weak foreign 
activity weighs on exports. But apart from that quantitative effect, a fragile global outlook is 
also likely to depress business confidence and lower investment. 
As a final remark, I would simply note, in response to President Harker’s interesting 
comment about the lack of outflow of population from the west, which is an entirely sensible 
fact, there does not, however, seem to be any decline in the flow within the west of people from 

California into Utah, which I view as a major policy problem, but perhaps not one for this group. 
[Laughter] Tomorrow I will discuss my view on the policy implications of the other factors I’ve 
covered today. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will ignore the disparaging 
comment about Californians. [Laughter] 
MR. KASHKARI. As somebody who left California. [Laughter] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. First of all, Mr. Chair, is it possible to get another flag? 
Because I feel I would like to be a little closer to the flag [laughter] than to the map right now. 
CHAIR POWELL. We’ll get to work on that. [Laughter] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you. Economic data since our June meeting paint a 
picture of an economy growing at a moderate rate, although with very mixed signals across 
sectors. Robust consumer spending is balanced by weakness in housing, business and fixed 
investment, and exports. And I take more signal from the signs of slowing investment than from 
the free-spending consumers. And I expect second-half growth, like the Tealbook, to step down 
to around trend rate. 
Indicators of inflation and inflation expectations have been uncomfortably subdued. And 
looking beyond our borders, the global outlook for growth in inflation has continued to darken. 
The poor showing of business fixed investment, the decline in exports, and ongoing weakness in 
manufacturing suggest that the realities and uncertainties of trade policy, and of the state of the 
global economy more generally, are adversely affecting businesses’ willingness to invest. 
Although press reports of the trade skirmishes wax and wane, business contacts tell me that the 

pervasive uncertainty around trade and other policies is unlikely to go away anytime soon, and 
they are acting based on that assumption. 
Regarding the global outlook, the news over the intermeeting period, including the most 
recent PMIs, has been discouraging. The latest IMF World Economic Outlook Update 
downgraded its projection for global growth and highlighted mounting disinflationary pressures 
with risks tilted to the downside. In particular, the risk of a no-deal Brexit has moved to the 
forefront. The situation in the euro area is particularly troubling. As already mentioned, Mario 
Draghi said in his press conference on Thursday that the outlook for the euro area is getting 
“worse and worse.” 
In response to these continuing fragilities, the ECB and several other central banks have 
either adjusted or indicated they soon will adjust the stance of their monetary policies to provide 
more support for their economies. However, on account of the already highly accommodative 
stance of policies in many jurisdictions, the ability of central banks to offset a downturn is quite 
limited, and a downturn abroad could spillover to weaker U.S. growth and inflation. 
The one clear bright spot is the resolution of uncertainty around U.S. fiscal policy and the 
looming debt ceiling. The compromise agreement to raise spending caps and suspend the debt 
ceiling for the next two fiscal years eliminates, or at least significantly postpones, a major risk to 
the economy and financial system. 
In considering the risks to the outlook, and particularly the risk of a recession, we often 
focus on warning signs of trouble down the road, such as yield curve inversions, as a number of 
people have commented already. But, more recently, some weakness in some indicators, 
especially for manufacturing, has led some commentators to conjecture that the economy may 

have already peaked or will soon do so. That is, from their view, we may already be in the initial 
stages of a recession. 
My staff has looked into this question. Because a widespread and persistent decline in 
economic activity characterizes the onset of recession, they took a big-data approach to 
measuring peaks in the business cycle and assessing real-time performance of various 
approaches using various techniques. And after evaluating a wide range of methods, they found 
that, in fact, this well-known, simple rule of thumb that a 0.35 percentage point rise in the three-
month average of the unemployment rate from its recent low point is actually a very good 
measure and one of the best indicators of a peak in the overall economy. My staff also found 
that there are other useful turning-point indicators based on the Conference Board jobs 
availability survey, job finding rates, and some cross-sectional measures of labor market and 
economic activity. 
So if you’re looking at the signals, whether it’s the unemployment rate rule of thumb or 
these other indicators, there’s really no evidence that the economy has already peaked. This 
analysis also identified that cycles in manufacturing in recent decades have not been as closely 
associated with turning points of broad economic activity as they had in previous decades. And 
the manufacturing recession of 2015 to 2016 is one good example. 
And this weakening of the link between the performance of the manufacturing sector and 
that of the general economy suggests that the recent slowdown that we’ve seen in manufacturing 
more likely signals a step-down in the overall growth rate of the economy rather than the start of 
something more broad based. But it’s also important to remember that the 2015–16 episode 
happened at a time when the FOMC significantly shifted its policy view, in terms of the number 

of times the FOMC increased rates relative to expectations. Did I slip into the policy discussion 
right there? Okay. 
Regarding inflation, core PCE inflation is around 1½ percent. It’s well below our goal. 
And the recent annual revision to the data shows that underlying trend inflation is somewhat 
lower than we thought. Measures of wage inflation, as a number of people have already 
commented, are quite muted. And despite the tight labor market, wage growth remains below 
where it was prior to the recession. And average hourly earnings growth, in fact, has slowed 
since earlier this year. 
And although indicators of inflation expectations have not changed substantially over the 
first half of the year, on net, measures based on the Michigan survey and the market-based 
measures are roughly ½ percentage point below the level that we saw around five years ago, a 
time when we thought they were at a level consistent with a 2 percent longer-run goal. And this 
is something that I worry about in our discussions around measures of inflation expectations. I 
do feel that sometimes in our focus on the ups and downs that invariably happen in these 
measures, we lose track of what the underlying question is. 
Are measures of inflation expectations where we want them, or have they moved perhaps 
very low or maybe to the low end of the range consistent with our target? I feel that that is the 
case, and inflation expectations are quite low relative to history. 
This overall picture of a slowing domestic economy, weak global growth, and 
persistently low inflation calls for a somewhat more accommodative stance of monetary policy 
in order to maximize the probability that we achieve the desired outcomes of sustained economic 
growth, a strong labor market, and inflation near our symmetric 2 percent inflation goal in the 
medium term. I will come back to those points in the discussion tomorrow. Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And thanks, everybody, for your comments. I’ll offer 
my own. At the June meeting, we saw a positive outlook but with risks from the crosscurrents of 
weak global growth and trade policy uncertainty. We also had concerns about below-target 
inflation. Our postmeeting statement said that we would carefully monitor the implications of 
incoming information and act as appropriate to sustain the expansion. 
Since then, the incoming U.S. economic data have been largely good news, and with 
some less good news. Headline growth for the second quarter was 2.1 percent, a bit below staff 
expectations at the June meeting, but the composition of second-quarter growth was actually an 
improvement, with private domestic final purchases (PDFP) rebounding strongly. PCE surged at 
an annual rate of 4.3 percent. Business fixed investment, however, was down 0.6 percent, and 
manufacturing moved down again. The solid June jobs report was a relief after May’s weak 
showing. Job gains are running well below last year’s level but still are at a level more than high 
enough to absorb new entrants. 
Wages are rising, but not fast enough to put much upward pressure on inflation. Core 
PCE prices rose only 1.6 percent in June from a year earlier. Market-based measures of inflation 
compensation and the Michigan survey reading on inflation expectations have rebounded 
recently but remain low. 
Regarding the crosscurrents—and I’ll start with trade—it is true that talks between the 
United States and China are resuming today and tomorrow. And we’re likely to know and 
outcome there is overnight and get a sense of the talks before our meeting tomorrow. At least 
until hearing the outcome—and maybe well after that—I am reserving judgment. I think all 
that’s really happened here is an agreement to have a meeting about having future meetings. 
[Laughter] 

By many, many accounts, the chances of a broad agreement in the near term are small, 
and the chances of further escalation remain quite real. A lasting reduction of tensions with 
China, if that happens, may have to wait until after the 2020 election, and tensions with China 
and other countries could easily flare between now and then. So from the standpoint of near-
term economic performance, even in the best likely case, trade uncertainty would remain a 
persistent feature of the economic landscape at reduced frequency. Hope to be wrong, and I’ll 
hope for good news overnight. 
Global growth prospects remain dim, particularly in the euro area. I’ll be yet another 
person to quote President Draghi last week as referring to the euro-area economy as “worse and 
worse,” a phrase that I suspect will be remembered, alongside others in his highly eventful term. 
President Draghi is trying to put together a broad easing package as he hands over the 
reins, and we certainly wish him success and expect success, but questions linger about the 
ECB’s remaining monetary policy space and the incremental effects of any easing moves. 
Hence, President Draghi’s repeated urging for fiscal policy, which seems the obvious answer—
except to those who have fiscal space to use. 
As for China, growth there has slowed sharply in the second quarter, as some temporary 
supports to activity faded. Underlying demand remains weak, and business and consumer 
sentiment have deteriorated. 
In early June, financial markets were flashing clear warning signals, beginning at the Fed 
Listens’ Conference on Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and Communication Practices at the 
Chicago Fed. Some of us, including yours truly, signaled our vigilance, and others followed suit. 
Financial conditions improved and are now much more growth friendly. Had we stayed on the 
sidelines and continued to watch patiently, financial conditions would probably be in a very 

different place. More to the point, the outlook for economic activity, predicated as it is on 
financial conditions, would be weaker. 
Regarding that outlook, according to the staff, real GDP growth will edge down to 
roughly potential, as Vice Chair Williams suggested. The staff continues to expect 12-month 
core PCE inflation to edge up closer to 2 percent in coming months but not actually to reach the 
2 percent target on a sustained basis in the forecast period. And that is, to me, all too plausible. 
For many years, we have asserted that inflation would rise persistently to the 
neighborhood of 2 percent. That forecast actually seemed on track for a good bit of last year. 
But, since December, we’ve all marked down our 2019 forecasts for core inflation and the 
federal funds rate, even if many of us did not write down an outright cut. 
Many of us have also revised down our estimates of u* and r*. Since September, the 
median estimate of r* has declined 50 basis points, and the estimate of u* declined 30 basis 
points. We are not in complete agreement, but, to a large degree, we are seeing the same 
things—lower stars, lower inflation, and an outlook supportive of more accommodative policy 
than we had previously expected. 
Finally, as some of you have noted, one of the risks of keeping interest rates low for a 
long time is that doing so may increase financial stability vulnerabilities. For now, I concur with 
the staff’s assessment that, overall, such vulnerabilities are moderate. Prices in asset markets, 
like equities and commercial real estate, are elevated. Leveraged lending bears close watching, 
and high corporate debt could amplify a downturn, but leverage and maturity transformation in 
the financial system are low. 
We’ll, of course, continue to monitor developments, but I don’t believe the current 
financial stability concerns should deter us from adjusting policy if we see fit to do so to achieve 

a somewhat more accommodative stance. On that note, I see the case for providing more 
accommodation at this meeting as persuasive, if not overwhelming. The position of our 
economy relative to the dual-mandate goals is historically good. The modal outlook is also 
reasonably good despite areas of weakness stemming from the crosscurrents we’ve been 
monitoring all year, particularly weak global growth and trade policy uncertainty. 
That positive outlook, though supported by the expectation of more accommodation, is 
still threatened by downside risks from the crosscurrents. The threat is particularly salient given 
the proximity of the effective lower bound. And we face what appears to be a more persistent 
shortfall of inflation below our symmetric 2 percent target. 
A rate cut tomorrow would be designed to sustain the expansion. It would offset the 
ongoing drag coming from trade uncertainty and weak global real growth. It would provide 
some insurance against further downside risks from these factors. And it would promote a faster 
return of inflation to our symmetric 2 percent target. 
I see the Committee as adjusting policy midcycle to a somewhat more accommodative 
stance, not beginning an extended loosening cycle, and I intend to make that clear. I will also 
signal that future adjustments will depend on our assessments of the incoming data and risks to 
the outlook, if the Committee does decide to move. 
Thank you for a great set of comments, and that brings our go-round to an end. And I 
will now turn it over to Trevor for the monetary policy briefing. 
MR. REEVE.
8 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be referring to the handout labeled 
“Material for the Briefing on Monetary Policy Alternatives.” 
As of your meeting six weeks ago, many of you concluded that the case for a 
somewhat more accommodative policy rate path had strengthened. You signaled 
your willingness to act as appropriate to achieve your goals, while awaiting additional 
information. The questions you now face are, what actions are appropriate to best 
 
8 The materials used by Mr. Reeve are appended to this transcript (appendix 8). 

promote your employment and inflation objectives? And how should your 
communications explain these actions and shape expectations for the future? 
The upper-left panel lists some considerations that are relevant for your 
deliberations. First, as many of you noted, the data on real activity received over the 
intermeeting period have been reassuring, although somewhat mixed. Job gains 
bounced back in June, the unemployment rate remains low, and growth in household 
spending rebounded strongly in the second quarter. On the other side of the ledger, 
business investment slowed to a standstill, and manufacturing output remains below 
its level at the beginning of the year. 
As Shaghil discussed in his presentation, sluggish real growth abroad has weighed 
on the U.S. outlook and continues to be a source of downside risk. On the trade front, 
the risk of an imminent escalation in tariffs eased over the intermeeting period. Even 
so, as shown in the upper-right panel, uncertainties about trade, as measured by the 
staff’s trade policy uncertainty index, remain elevated. These uncertainties, along 
with weaker foreign demand, appear to have weighed appreciably on domestic 
investment, manufacturing, and trade and may continue to do so. 
The headwinds and risks posed by these global developments are likely 
contributing to the evolving view that lower interest rates may be required to achieve 
given economic outcomes. This perspective is evident in the evolution of private 
forecasts for the U.S. economy. The middle-left panel shows vintages of Blue Chip 
forecasts over the past year and a half. The real GDP growth projections for 2019, 
the solid black line, and 2020, the dashed black line, have held roughly steady over 
time. In contrast, the Blue Chip projections for short- and long-term interest rates, the 
red and blue lines, have declined about 1 percentage point. The lower path of interest 
rates, reinforced by FOMC communications over the course of the year, has likely 
helped stabilize the outlook for the economy. 
Regarding consumer prices, recent data, on balance, have come in about as 
expected, consistent with the view that the weakness in PCE inflation seen earlier this 
year was in large part transitory. Even so, inflation pressures clearly remain muted, 
despite the fact that the expansion is in its 11th year and the unemployment rate has 
remained at or below 4 percent for 16 consecutive months. And as David noted in his 
presentation, the staff continues to project headline and core inflation to run slightly 
below 2 percent over the medium term. 
The middle-right panel shows the evolution of median projections from the SEP 
for core PCE inflation over recent years. Each line shows a projection for a particular 
year, with the SEP vintage shown on the x-axis. When projections for a given year 
are first made—roughly three years out—the typical forecast has been of 2 percent 
inflation. With the passage of time, however, these forecasts have routinely been 
revised down, as inflation has continued to run below 2 percent. While this time may 
be different, and 2 percent inflation could be around the corner, you may not find the 
historical record on this score to be all that reassuring. In addition, both market- and 
survey-based indicators of longer-term inflation expectations are low by historical 

standards—suggesting that inflation expectations may be somewhat below, or may be 
at risk of moving below, the level consistent with your symmetric inflation objective. 
In the context of these developments, you may judge that had it not been for 
Federal Reserve communications signaling a somewhat easier policy stance, current 
financial conditions would be tighter, and the outlook for both the real economy and 
inflation would be weaker. Hence, you may judge that a modest reduction in the 
target range for the federal funds rate is appropriate at this meeting, as in alternative 
B. You may see that such an action is warranted to counter the headwinds and to 
guard against the risks posed by trade and global developments and to support the 
sustainable return of inflation to 2 percent. 
Alternatively, you may view the recent data flow as sufficiently strong to defer 
any decision to change the stance of policy, as in alternative C. You may judge that 
global risks and uncertainties, while being important to monitor, do not at this time 
call for a policy response. In this regard, you may be concerned that financial 
markets have gotten too far ahead of themselves in pricing in rate cuts and that some 
recalibration is warranted. 
Conversely, if you have greater concerns about the outlook, especially the risk 
that inflation expectations may be anchored at too low a level, you may favor a more 
aggressive policy easing at this time, as in alternative A. 
As Lorie noted, market participants widely expect you to lower the target range 
for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points at this meeting. Your communications 
regarding this presumed action will be important in shaping expectations for policy in 
the future. The lower-left panel shows an options-derived probability distribution for 
the federal funds rate following your September meeting. At this time, investors 
place roughly 65 percent odds on at least another 25 basis point reduction in the target 
range at that meeting and about a 30 percent probability on no change. 
While it is always difficult to predict how market participants will react to your 
policy statement and associated communications, the bottom-right panel highlights 
some aspects of alternative B that will likely draw attention. First, although the 25 
basis point reduction in the target range is widely expected, the action will confirm 
recent Federal Reserve communications indicating that a somewhat easier stance of 
monetary policy is appropriate to achieve your objectives. Second, retaining the 
reference to the Committee’s willingness to “act as appropriate” may signal continued 
openness to additional policy adjustments. On the other hand, replacing “closely 
monitor” with “continue to monitor” may convey less imminent concern about the 
outlook. Finally, the decision to end balance sheet runoff in August may reinforce 
perceptions that the Committee will be flexible in adjusting its policy in light of 
economic and financial developments. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. That completes my prepared remarks. The June statement 
and the draft alternatives and implementation notes are shown on pages 2 to 11 of the 
handout. I will be happy to take any questions. 

CHAIR POWELL. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. So if we wanted to be flexible going into September, would we 
want a 65 percent probability that we ease 25 basis points? If the Committee adopts the 
language in alternative B for its statement following this meeting, do you think there will 
continue to be a 65 percent probability that we ease 25 basis points in September? And I thought 
we’d want a number significantly lower than that if we truly wanted flexibility. 
MR. REEVE. Well, I would say a couple of things about that. One, as I said in my 
remarks, it’s always difficult to know how the market will fully react to the Committee’s 
statement. I think, as Lorie noted, the expectations for this meeting are for the Committee to cut 
rates slightly more than 25 basis points, because it may be a little better probability on 30. That 
difference between the language in alternative B and market expectations alone will likely shift 
the expected path for policy slightly in the upward direction. But I do think the odds the 
Committee will ease 25 basis points in September would remain high, maybe not necessarily 
higher than they are now. I don’t know. It depends on the whole package of communications, 
including the press conference. 
But, perhaps just as important, the probability that markets place on an easing in 
September is not going to be fixed in time between this meeting, the outcome tomorrow, and the 
time of your September meeting. There will be a lot of information coming in over the 
intermeeting period that will affect market expectations for the path of future policy, including 
communications from all of you. And what we have seen, certainly both in the recent 
intermeeting period and previously, is that policy expectations do maintain a pretty high 
sensitivity to data releases and economic news. So my expectation would be that those 

probabilities would continue to evolve as September approaches and be importantly shaped by 
both the data and your communications. 
CHAIR POWELL. Maybe I’ll offer a couple of comments. I do want to have more 
optionality coming out of this meeting. I do. I think that’s appropriate. I think that’s where the 
Committee is, and I just think there’s too much certainty priced in that we will ease 25 basis 
points. 
The worst time to change policy expectations is in the press conference. We have a 
bunch of other shots to do that over the course of the intermeeting period, and I’m sensitive 
about coming in to the press conference and trying to move the probability the market places on 
a easing in September to zero or way far below where it is now. You could get a very big market 
reaction then, and it would look like kind of a big surprise, which I don’t think is a great idea. 
What I’m planning to do, though, is to suggest that—I mean, the language I had written 
down is, “In contemplating potential future adjustments, we will continue to monitor the 
implications of incoming information.” So “in contemplating any potential future adjustments” 
is what I’m going to say. That suggests that you’re contemplating potential future adjustments. 
That suggests a slight probability of a cut in September—it’s a “data-dependent lean,” but it’s far 
short of certainty. So I would think that would be the right tone to strike. I mean, it’s very hard 
to get these things exactly right in real time, of course. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Two observations. First, thank you, Trevor and team. You definitely 
had an active six weeks since our June meeting. I’d like to make two comments on two of the 
slides on page 1. The first slide I’ll comment on is the one showing the evolution of Blue Chip 
forecasts, and Trevor made this point, but let me make it more explicitly. I think this is very 
informative, and it dovetails with something that Chair Powell indicated. 

In September of last year, our median r* estimate on this Committee was 1 percent, and 
the median u* was 4.5 percent. So, as the Chair indicated, the r* of the median participant is 
down 50 basis points and the u* is down 30 basis points. And jam that into your John Taylor 
rule, and you’ll basically get about an 80 basis point easing relative to what would have been 
appropriate policy last September. 
What’s striking to me about this chart is that the Blue Chip forecasters, many if not most 
of whom actually get paid to do a really good forecast, have seen that the rate profile is down 
substantially. The policy rate profile is down relative to where the Blue Chip forecasters were a 
year ago, and they have not changed their GDP forecast at all. And that’s, at least in a first cut, 
indicative of this view that I and I think others around here have that there are these headwinds, 
and the appropriate policy rate path to get our desired outcomes has been adjusted. So that’s a 
striking way to present that. 
The other thing I would mention is the companion chart to the right of the Blue Chip 
chart, and I’ve seen this type of chart as well. I used to do versions of this chart in my earlier 
career. But what I would say is, we’re thinking about the framework review, and we’re thinking 
about what maybe the Committee does in five or six years to look back on this period, and it 
would be nice if, at the end of our review, we set in place a process and a framework so that the 
picture for the years 2020 to 2025 does not have this pattern. 
It would be nice for the median projection from the SEP for core PCE inflation to be a 
straight line, because remember these projections are done under appropriate policy. We’re 
basically saying in each of these median SEP projections under appropriate policy the outcome is 
inflation below our 2 percent target, and I think this gets at a concern that some of us have 

expressed about inflation expectations moving below levels consistent with our inflation 
objective. But, anyway, that’s for tomorrow and down the road, but thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. This is just a very boneheaded question that I know has to be clear to 
everyone else around the table, but I’m just curious. Paragraph 4 on alternative B—I had 
thought that we were ending our reduction in the balance sheet in September, and now we’re 
ending it in August, and a close study of the Julian calendar would suggest [laughter] that August 
is one month before September. So what’s happening there? 
MR. REEVE. So if you look at the implementation note— 
MR. QUARLES. Oh, there’s an implementation note. 
MR. REEVE. Yes, well, you don’t need to look at it. The implementation note makes it 
clear that that change in policy is effective August 1. The previous communications were that 
roll-off would finish at the end of September. The current implementation note actually reflects 
two calendar months of a difference in timing. This sentence in paragraph 4, whether helpfully 
or maybe a bit obscurely, doesn’t actually use the month “September” to try to avoid that 
particular confusion, but it is two months. 
MR. QUARLES. Okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. We had this discussion, I guess, this morning. I know we’ve been 
talking for some time here in various statements about sustaining the expansion, and it was 
talked about this morning, about how our goals should be sustained maximum employment and 
price stability. 

For me, I wonder about us, if not in this meeting, soon, weaning off “sustain the 
expansion” because I don’t think for me that is the same as achieving our dual-mandate goals of 
full employment and price stability over a sustained period of time. I can imagine scenarios in 
which those could diverge, and I’d rather hang my hat on the second rather than the first. But I’d 
like to raise that and just get other comments on this, because I know “sustain the expansion” has 
been embedded in our statement language here for some time now. 
MR. KASHKARI. Could I ask a question about that? So you’re saying there’s a 
scenario where you could have an end of the expansion that would be helpful to achieving our 
dual-mandate goals over the long term? I don’t— 
MR. KAPLAN. I guess I’m saying there are limits to what I would do to sustain the 
expansion. In other words, if your goal really is to sustain the expansion at all costs, you might 
actually undertake monetary policy actions that make the next downturn more severe and may 
actually imperil your ability to achieve your dual mandate objectives. It’s a nuance, but I’d want 
to just raise it. 
CHAIR POWELL. Esther. 
MS. GEORGE. Said another way, our mandate is clearly directed toward sustainable 
levels of maximum employment, as well as price stability. So I just think you could run those in 
a direction in the interest of sustaining the expansion that may not actually fulfill those dual 
mandates. 
These colored lines in the SEP slide in Trevor’s briefing show that I’ve done a poor job 
here. I guess when you look over the period displayed in the slide, there were varying levels of 
accommodation in place throughout. Now, we’re talking here about a 25 basis point reduction 
with, if I read this right, no promise of others. That we expect will turn the curve on inflation 

expectations? Will it alter some of these headwinds we have been discussing in a way that—I 
just want to be clear about what you said your message was going to be, and— 
CHAIR POWELL. I’m not trying to get to a completely neutral, patient place in the 
statement—we’re not looking in that direction. That is not what I’m trying to accomplish, and I 
don’t think that’s where we are. What I’m saying is that we will be data dependent in any 
potential further adjustments. That’s what I’m saying. I’m trying to inject data in there, because 
when you have a 25 basis point easing in September priced in at 70 percent probability, it’s not 
very data dependent. So I’d like to move that back down. I’m not looking to take the probability 
of a rate cut in September to zero, because I don’t think the probability is zero. I’d like to create 
more optionality with this statement and then see how things play out. Does that make sense? 
MS. GEORGE. I think so, except what it suggests to me is, given what we’ve 
experienced over the past decade, it will take more, I assume, based on the discussions we’ve 
had, to alter those long-term inflation expectations. 
CHAIR POWELL. My point is, we’re not making that decision today. Tomorrow we’re 
making a decision, but we’re not deciding about September at this meeting. And I think it’s a 
good thing that we have more optionality about what we do at the next meeting, right? I mean, it 
may well be that some group supports doing another rate cut at the next meeting. I don’t think 
we know that or need to decide that today, but I think it’s unhealthy to have the markets pricing a 
rate cut in September in to the point they currently have I think this is the right time to adjust 
market expectations to create more optionality. I’m just reluctant to do it in a way that’s very 
disruptive and confusing to the markets. That’s all. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I completely concur with what you just said. This is not about what you 
just said about tomorrow, but I’m going to follow up on President George’s point. So one of the 

tensions that I think is arising that we should talk about, perhaps, is that when you’re data 
dependent and then we put a portfolio of data together that we’ll look at, but then we’re also 
looking at this SEP chart here, which we don’t really emphasize as much—this is a chart that’s 
different, in my read, from just muted inflation pressures of a tenth or two. This is saying we’ve 
persistently missed. And at some point we have to decide, I think, as a Committee—will we 
really go for moving inflation expectations and inflation up, and is that different from watching 
incoming headwinds and judging whether they are so much, they’ll push us back or not? And 
I’m not suggesting you do that tomorrow, but I do think, ongoing, that’s the tension in the 
language—that we’re trying to accomplish, with one set of language, two different kinds of 
things, and it may not fit under that big tent forever. 
CHAIR POWELL. I’ll just say, I would never say that we will do whatever it takes to 
get inflation up to our 2 percent target, because we don’t know whether we can. Nonetheless, I 
think it is a good thing to be seen to be using your tools to support inflation moving up.. That’s 
why I’m trying to characterize this as a midcycle adjustment to a somewhat more 
accommodative policy stance. We’re not saying that we’re just going to keep cranking the 
federal funds rate down until inflation gets over 2 percent. 
President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. One thought about creating optionality based on this chart 
number three here in exhibit 1 is that sometimes we would say, “Okay, this looks like a small 
move, because it’s only 25 basis points,” but earlier this year we took some other tightening off 
the table, and now we’re adding one cut to it. So we’ve actually done quite a bit in the first six 
months of the year. The Committee, I think, in the past would have said, “Well, we’ve done 
quite a bit here. Let’s wait and see how the data come in, see if this has the kinds of effects that 

we thought,” so that that will take away the market expecting that if something doesn’t happen 
during the intermeeting period, we’ve got to move again. I think we can credibly make the case 
that we’ve done a lot, and it’s time to wait and see the effects of our action. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. I agree with President Bullard on that. It does seem like we’ve done a lot 
relative to December. I thought President George’s question was a really good one, because it’s 
so easy to say, “It’s only 25 basis points.” Is that really going to make a big difference to the 
outlook? And I was chuckling because, yes, that’s true. You know, it is only 25 basis points. 
I go back to December, and I thought that was only 25 basis points too, and the 
continuation of the balance sheet adjustment was just what we’d been saying we were going to 
do anyway. And so I view this as, it’s only 25 if we do alternative B. I get that. But I think it’s 
trying to indicate that we’re alert to the risks and clued in, and we’ll see how things progress—
the data dependence and all of that. So I think that it’s more than 25 in terms of its effect, and, 
combined with what we didn’t do after December, it’s probably even more. But it’s a totally 
valid question and concern. 
CHAIR POWELL. Other questions or comments? [No response] Hearing none, seeing 
none, we adjourn to the elegant West Court Café, as always. See you at nine o’clock tomorrow 
morning. Thanks, everybody. 
[Meeting recessed] 

July 31 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. Before we get started today, I want 
everyone to join me in congratulating one of our number on a very special achievement. On this 
very day, Jim Clouse celebrates 30 years at the Fed. [Applause] I think we all know Jim is 
tremendously valuable in his work here. He will also shortly turn 60, which means that he’s 
spent half of his life here at the Fed. [Laughter] Anyway, thank you so much, Jim. 
All right. Let’s get started again. David, do you have a data update for us? 
MR. LEBOW. I do. This morning we received the employment cost index for June. For 
private industry workers, the numbers for total compensation were a 2.1 percent annual rate of 
increase over the three months ending in June or 2.6 percent over the past 12 months ending in 
June. That’s a little bit below our Tealbook estimate of a 2.8 percent increase over the past 12 
months. The downward surprise was in benefits, not wages and salaries. We don’t yet know the 
components of benefits—we get that information later today. So, more evidence that wage gains 
remain moderate. 
This morning we also received ADP’s public estimate of their employment change for 
the month of July. This is distinct from the weekly ADP figures I reported yesterday. They 
estimate a 156,000 increase in private employment in July—so, not very different from our 
Tealbook estimate on which I reported yesterday. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Thank you. Questions for David? [No response] If not, let’s 
begin our policy go-round. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. I support alternative B as written. I support 
the policy decision to lower the funds rate target range by 25 basis points and to conclude in 
August the process of reducing the holdings of securities in the SOMA. 

I’m glad to see in the statement that we acknowledge that “measures of inflation 
compensation remain low.” Yes, they have rebounded since our June meeting, but only because 
a somewhat more accommodative policy stance has been priced in. 
Regardless, breakeven inflation rates remain some 30 basis points below the levels that 
prevailed before the financial crisis. We continue in the statement to state that “survey-based 
measures of . . . inflation expectations are little changed,” but, of course, at least in the Michigan 
survey, they’re little changed at a historically very low level. And, as I think was pointed out 
yesterday during the economic outlook go-round, if the measures of expected inflation that we 
consult were consistent with our 2 percent inflation objective in 2005 and 2006, then, since 
they’re lower now, they probably are not consistent with the objective. Indeed, the staff 
estimates of inflation expectations based on TIPS, which correct for liquidity and term premium 
effects in the TIPS market, suggest that conclusion. 
In regard to the way forward for policy, I’d like to make three points. Again, u* 
estimates of Committee participants have been trending down. Many of us have a u* of around 4 
percent, and, obviously, if u* is lower, then that means that the output gap is smaller, putting less 
upward pressure on inflation. And, as I mentioned yesterday, I do think this is a downside risk to 
our outlook for returning to 2 percent inflation. 
With regard to inflation expectations, obviously, they’re not something that we directly 
observe. But I, for one, think it’s important to try to do our best to understand where inflation 
expectations are moving and to communicate that inflation expectations are one factor that enters 
into our policy thinking. 
Finally, I’d like to conclude with a little calculation to address head-on this issue of data 
dependence in our reaction function. So I want to begin with a 1993 Taylor rule, but I’m going 

to use our June SEP estimates of r* and u* as the inputs to that Taylor rule. If you take the data 
that we have as of today on core PCE inflation over the past year and on unemployment and you 
use John Taylor’s coefficients, you end up with a Taylor rule policy rate, given current data and 
the r* and u* in the SEP, of around 2.4 percent. 
Let’s recall that, in September 2018—which, coincidentally, was my first meeting as a 
Fed Governor—the SEP median showed an r* of 1 percent and a u* of 4.5 percent. Since then, 
Committee participants have been revising down estimates of the “star” variables based on the 
incoming data that we’ve seen. If you take the 50 basis point adjustment in r* and the 30 basis 
point adjustment in u*, that accounts for most of the projected shift down in the policy rate path 
since our September meeting. 
So I support our policy decision today while acknowledging that it does imply a top end 
for the target range of the federal funds rate that’s about 15 basis points below the Taylor rule 
calculation. But I believe this is justified for prudent risk-management considerations, given the 
downside risk I see to inflation. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. But, like 
President George yesterday, I wonder if this will really be enough—most likely, for different 
reasons, given that she’s on the map side of the room. [Laughter] 
Relative to June, my confidence that the economic expansion is on track has increased. 
The data on economic activity have largely met or beat expectations, and some of the potholes 
we were worried about have been avoided—for example, the federal budget accord avoids a debt 
ceiling event this year. Against this backdrop, it seems like we could stand pat and wait for more 
data. 

I know, at this point, it sounds like I might be arguing for alt-C, but the intermeeting data 
are only part of the story. And, along lines similar to Governor Clarida, I want to go through just 
some simple arithmetic that helped me. If you compare the current situation that we are in today 
with where we were in March, the median SEP participant in March had no change in the funds 
rate over the course of 2019, and the median estimate of long-run r* in the March SEP was 0.8 
percent. In contrast, in the June SEP, the median r* had fallen to 0.5 percent, implying a 30 
basis point decline in the long-run funds rate. So if we assume that short-run r* is at least as low 
as this long-run number, this implies we need one rate cut this year just to keep the stance of 
policy unchanged from March. And that was a time when we characterized the economy and our 
policy as being in a good place. 
So why move beyond this simple rebalancing, recalibrating policy to where we were in 
March? What’s the case for further cuts this year? I find two arguments most persuasive. First, 
as we discussed yesterday, we face one-sided risk in our ability to control the path of policy. 
One way to take insurance against this risk is to recognize the estimated nature of our star 
variables, especially r*. Estimates of r* are highly uncertain and have fallen steadily over the 
past several years, and there is some downside risk to further declines, given the lower interest 
rates in foreign countries. 
Vasco Curdia’s presentation yesterday, based on the framework memo, makes the case 
for insuring against the downside risk to further declines in r* by using the lower range of r* 
estimates when setting policy, rather than the mean or median values. Under that scenario, if r* 
turns out to be higher than we think—we’ve made that mistake—and, hence, policy is too 
accommodative, we can easily course-correct by raising interest rates, particularly since a 

nonlinear effect on inflation or a jump in inflation, is highly unlikely, as work by not only the 
San Francisco Fed, but also many other people in the System, has documented. 
If, on the other hand, r* is lower than we think, policy will be too tight, and the effective 
lower bound (ELB) will limit our room to adjust. In other words, in such a close proximity to 
the effective lower bound, it’s important to err on the side of being too accommodative relative 
to our estimated r* rather than too restrictive. 
Now, a related but different rationale comes from considering inflation. Inflation 
projections for this year and next have come down since March by at least a couple of tenths of a 
percentage point. And, given the volatility of the data and the imprecision of monetary policy, 
inflation of 1.8 percent or 1.7 percent may feel close enough to our 2 percent target. However, as 
we all discussed yesterday, if we consistently miss our inflation objective to the downside, 
despite an apparently strong economy and a tight labor market, the public will increasingly 
incorporate these sustained low inflation readings into their expectations. And my concern is, 
they won’t anchor on the 2 percent inflation target we talk about, but on the less than 2 percent 
inflation we deliver. This is a challenge that Europe is currently facing, and, of course, Japan has 
lost that battle and is now fighting a completely different war. 
In more tangible terms, lower actual and expected inflation—even if just a few tenths—
translates into less conventional policy space should a negative shock occur. If, for example, 
inflation expectations are ¼ percentage point below our target when the next downturn arrives, 
and so are nominal interest rates, this translates into one rate cut fewer that we have at our 
disposal. When I look at that, it simply says that underrunning the inflation target on a consistent 
basis limits our conventional policy space, making it more likely we will hit the ELB and then be 
forced to turn to less-proven, less-certain unconventional policy tools. 

Finally, as we discussed yesterday—and I think it’s very important—we have to consider 
our policy decisions in the context of financial stability. But, like many, I see the best protection 
against financial stability risks as being our macroprudential tools. So I would like to see the 
countercyclical capital buffer being deployed or the stress tests becoming tougher before using a 
blunter tool like monetary policy to address financial stability concerns. In the end, I would hate 
to see us err on the side of holding back insurance accommodation for low r* or low inflation to 
solve for potential imbalances in the financial system, which we could treat first with other tools. 
So, in sum, weighing the risks of further declines in r* and continuing low inflation 
versus creating imbalances that can be corrected with other tools, I come out currently thinking 
that we should be adjusting our policy rate path downward. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We did not make a policy rate move at the 
June meeting but signaled a likely move at the current meeting. Accordingly, markets have 
placed a 100 percent probability on a 25 basis point move or more for today. In my view, we 
essentially already made this move at the previous meeting, at least in terms of influencing 
market pricing, and now we need to ratify that decision. This is not my preferred way for the 
Committee to operate, but, nevertheless, I think we will be fine with alternative B today. 
I think we may need to move again at coming meetings in order to position the policy 
rate appropriately, given current global macroeconomic conditions. But I would like to avoid 
having the market place a 100 percent probability on another move occurring at the September 
meeting. One way we may be able to accomplish this is to emphasize the sea change in U.S. and 
global monetary policy that has occurred during 2019. In the second half of 2018, there was a 
widespread view that rates would be normalized considerably further, perhaps by as much as 

100 basis points, in order to contain incipient inflation pressures associated with an economy that 
continued to surprise to the upside. 
The Committee has, generally speaking, stepped back from that view and now sees the 
current level of the policy rate as a bit high relative to the level that would return inflation to 
target or, preferably, above target over the forecast horizon. Arguably, with another rate 
reduction in train, this has been a swing of as much as 150 basis points on the level of the policy 
rate relative to expectations in late 2018. Given this large swing, it is likely appropriate that the 
Committee now takes a wait-and-see posture heading into the next few meetings to measure the 
effects of these actions. I hope we will see more evidence during the fall of a re-centering of 
inflation and inflation expectations at our 2 percent target. As an example: The TIPS 
breakevens were up about 15 basis points on the news coming out of the June meeting. I 
interpret this as a somewhat higher market-based inflation expectation, given the dovish surprise 
at that meeting. 
I think we can also argue that today’s move provides some insurance against a sharper-
than-expected slowdown in the U.S. economy. We already expect the economy to slow to trend 
growth, and that trend growth is itself not particularly high compared with U.S. historical 
averages. Much of this slowdown is, in fact, happening during 2019. Real GDP growth is 
slower, on a year-over-year basis, than it was last year. Job growth is also slower this year than 
it was last year. 
The uncertainty around global trade arrangements has increased significantly and, in my 
view, is unlikely to return to normal levels over the forecast horizon. We’re just going to have to 
live with trade uncertainty. This is having a much larger effect outside the United States than it 
is inside the United States, slowing global growth, and this may feed back into deteriorating U.S. 

macro performance. A positive aspect of our present policy is to encourage continued strong 
labor market performance that should especially benefit groups of workers that have historically 
had higher rates of unemployment. 
I continue to be concerned about yield curve inversion. I agree with President Kaplan’s 
comments yesterday that the inversion suggests that our policy rate setting is somewhat out of 
alignment with respect to market fundamentals. The slope of the yield curve between the 2-year 
maturity and the 10-year maturity is not inverted at this point, which gives me some comfort that 
there is not a recession signal coming from yield curve inversions between other rates within the 
curve. So I think that we can make some small adjustments beginning today, and then we’ll 
again see an upward-sloping curve soon. 
Finally, I would say it’s not unusual to search for the right level of the policy rate 
following the end of a normalization cycle; the 1995–96 period was very much like this. The 
Committee had to feel its way around in the meetings following the end of the normalization 
cycle at that juncture. They did so successfully and set up the economy for an excellent second 
half of the 1990s, one of the best periods of macroeconomic performance in U.S. postwar 
history. 
On alternative B itself, I would just make one comment. I would prefer not to raise the 
balance sheet issue again. I think that we’ve already made a decision on the balance sheet. I 
would be willing to live with that decision. I think if we were asked about it, we could just say, 
“Well, the balance sheet runoff is ending anyway, so we just left that decision alone.” I think 
that, by putting paragraph 4 in here, we may be inadvertently raising the specter that balance 
sheet policy would again become an active tool of policy. My sense is that the Committee 
doesn’t want to do that any time soon. 

So if it was just me, I would strike paragraph 4. I understand that some people may want 
this paragraph in here, and I can live with it. I do think we can make our way with this 
paragraph, but my preference would be not to raise this issue at this juncture. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative C for this meeting. 
Easing today when the data since the past meeting have been favorable seems at odds with the 
data dependence that we have emphasized so much recently. 
In light of the favorable data since June, the decision to reduce rates at this meeting poses 
significant communication challenges. Numerous investment letters and private forecasters are 
speculating that our reaction function has changed. You may recall that the communications 
paper at the Chicago Fed Listens conference emphasized that being clear about our reaction 
function is an important focal point. That there is speculation that we have changed our reaction 
function without adequate communication is problematic. 
At this point, I do not find heightened uncertainty a compelling case for easing. Many 
measures of uncertainty are not elevated. While trade uncertainty is elevated, the effects to date 
are largely in the forecast, and those effects are modest. It is difficult to know when and in what 
way this uncertainty will be resolved. 
One rationale for easing is to take out insurance against the possibility that the trade war 
will intensify and the global manufacturing slowdown will snowball into a full-blown global 
recession. These concerns might be heightened, given our relative proximity to the ELB. 
However, I would prefer policy not to get too far ahead of the actual data. If these concerns 
materialize, I would support easing at that time. 

Finally, this action seems to turn the punch bowl metaphor on its head. Rather than 
taking the punch bowl away, we’re arguably spiking it. Should an asset price collapse be a 
driver in the next economic downturn, it will be hard to explain what tradeoff we are weighing at 
this meeting when asset prices are inflated on the one hand while unemployment is near 
historical lows and inflation is forecast to be close to target by the end of the year on the other. 
That is to say, I am worried about the financial stability implications of easing when the 
economy is relatively strong and financial markets are exuberant. The past several recessions 
were caused not by reaction to inflation concerns but rather by the failure to address financial 
stability concerns in a timely manner. In summary, with unemployment near 50-year lows, 
trimmed-mean PCE inflation at 2 percent and core PCE inflation likely to rise, many measures of 
uncertainty not unusually elevated, and financial stability concerns rising with stock prices and 
corporate leverage near all-time highs, I see no need for additional monetary accommodation at 
this time. 
I find this press conference likely to be a substantial communications challenge. The best 
way to go into a press conference is with a simple and clear message. I think that’s difficult at 
this time because, if you use r* as the reason for easing at this time, micromanaging a difficult-
to-precisely-measure r* is, I think, a difficult argument to make. If we focus on global 
conditions, a challenging logical question would be, why should we move to ease policy before 
central banks whose countries are much weaker? And, finally, if you’re worried about low 
inflation, to get to President George’s question yesterday, with one move in rates, it’s difficult to 
alter inflation expectations. 

So I think it is a difficult message to deliver. I hope others can provide that simple, 
clear message that I’m missing right now. And I wish the Chair luck at the press conference. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the policy action as described in 
alternative C. 
I agree with President Bullard—this action that’s proposed in alterative B ratifies a signal 
that was sent earlier. But the scope of the action and the accompanying explanation in 
alternative B are troubling for me. Let me explain. The case for a rate cut, as I see it, rests on 
one of three fairly distinct arguments. The first is that the data suggest that the economy has 
weakened and there’s a plausibly high probability of a turning point in the cycle. I don’t think 
anyone at this table is in that camp. 
An alternative rationale is that the level of uncertainty and the risks to the outlook are 
sufficiently elevated that one or more insurance cuts are prudent on risk-management terms. 
This, I believe, is the reason that is motivating much of the Committee. As I noted in my 
comments in the economic go-round, this view does not mesh with the feedback received from 
my contacts and directors. Policy and global real growth risks do persist, but I don’t hear the 
sentiment that they are accelerating or that uncertainty is growing. If anything, businesses, 
having gone through several iterations of contingency planning related to trade exposures, seem 
to be better positioned to deal with the negative surprises should they come. 
That leaves a possibility that global risk attitudes, having depressed market yields on safe 
assets, have lowered the policy rate that is consistent with a neutral stance of policy. I think a 
neutral stance is appropriate given my read on the state of the economy relative to our dual 

mandate. So this rationale is harder for me to dismiss than the other two. But two points on this. 
First, if the yield curve is telling us that we need to adjust monetary policy to keep the stance 
neutral, it seems to me the more assertive policy adjustment in alternative A feels more 
appropriate than the 25 basis point cut in alternative B, though I’m not supportive of the 
reasoning given for the move outlined in alternative A. This is the last point that President 
Rosengren raised. If we are convinced that the inverted yield curve is telling us we are north of 
neutral, then we should take actions to get back to neutral as quickly and as boldly as possible. 
Second, I would feel a lot more comfortable with a rate cut at this meeting if the rhetoric 
supporting this move was based on a defensive adjustment to developments that require a move 
to maintain a neutral policy stance in the context of an economic outlook that is otherwise just 
fine. But that is not how I believe we have set up this move. It is certainly not how it is going to 
be perceived, in my view. Although it is better now than in earlier drafts, the language in both 
alternative A and alternative B still clearly suggests that, because of risks, we have downgraded 
our outlook for the economy. 
I will share an anecdote from one of my Branch directors, who represents a very large 
national and international manufacturing firm. This director noted that last month, his company 
had slightly downshifted production volumes despite positive readings on all of the business 
indicators they typically use to make such decisions. The reason was, in fact, that they are taking 
on board additional downside risks. The kicker is that our director indicated that recent Fed talk 
about loosening policy in the face of risks played a role in their assessment. This was not an 
isolated comment. In fact, the apparent disconnect between our views and what businesses see 
from their perspective proved to be a dominant and, I might add, unsolicited theme in my Atlanta 
board of directors meeting last Thursday. 

I don’t want to overstate the case. Exposure to international trade disruptions is clearly 
real, but even those contacts most exposed to trade and global economic developments recognize 
that their challenges are not universally shared across the economy. And I have been receiving 
the very clear message that the sentiment that is creeping into business planning is, what does the 
Fed know that we don’t? 
The upshot is that I fear we are providing, in President Evans’s terminology, some 
negative Delphic guidance. If we persist in conditioning the public for yet more rate cuts in the 
absence of data suggesting a discernible softening of the trajectory of the economy, I think the 
risk of negatively affecting sentiment in this decisionmaking is real. 
I’d also like to make some comments about the decision to conclude the reduction of our 
security holdings effective August 1. Terminating the balance sheet rundown two months early 
isn’t going to make a material difference in the stance of policy either way. So the decision 
obviously comes down to the question of what we intend to signal with this aspect of the policy 
decision. Our position—or, at least, my position—has been that the effect of our balance sheet 
reduction has been de minimis. If there has been any quantitative effect, it has not shown up in 
term premiums or, at least, has been swamped by other factors easing financial conditions. 
Accordingly, the Committee had decided that the best course was to gear our asset 
management to longer-run issues related to the desired size of our balance sheet, driven by 
considerations about the effective implementation of monetary policy. Balance sheet policy, in 
other words, was to be moved to the background, and interest rates would be the primary 
instrument for adjusting the stance of policy. 
So, what has changed? A logical, though unstated, conclusion from the proposed balance 
sheet policy shift is that we are sufficiently concerned about the need to provide additional 

stimulus that we are willing to break from our earlier commitment and from the rationale that 
supported that commitment. I do understand the counter to this position. We took great pains 
earlier in the year to disabuse markets of the view that our balance sheet policies were locked in, 
come hell or high water. I also understand that a rate cut without a halt to the balance sheet 
reductions could and likely would open the gates to negative commentary and the accusation of 
incoherence in our approach. And maybe this should be determinative. But if our announced 
policy plans and the reasons for them are taken seriously, then the double barrel of a rate cut and 
the early halting of balance sheet reduction will indicate that we believe that a serious reversal of 
fortune for the U.S. economy may be looming. 
This doubling down is exactly what worries me about this policy decision and statement. 
We need to strongly and clearly hammer the message that we expect the economy to remain 
strong. Alternative B does say this, but I feel the message gets lost amid the signals about a 
weakening outlook. I am very concerned that our subtlety in language will be too subtle, and 
that expectations will not adjust the way many of us hope. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support no change in the target range for the 
federal funds rate at this meeting. The economic information that has come in over the 
intermeeting period has been largely positive, and the downside risks to the forecast have 
moderated somewhat since our previous meeting. 
As President Bostic found, business contacts in my District are coping with the 
uncertainty over trade policy. Though they’re experiencing some slowdown in activity 
compared with last year, they expect growth to continue at its trend pace. 

My modal forecast remains that growth will slow to a trend pace of 2 percent, that labor 
market conditions will remain strong, and that inflation will move gradually back up to 
2 percent. In this context, I don’t see a compelling argument for cutting the funds rate at this 
time and would prefer that we continue to monitor incoming economic and financial information 
and assess the outlook and risks before making a change in our policy rate. 
I realize that not everyone did, but if one believes that the funds rate was at the 
appropriate level at the time of our previous meeting, it’s difficult to explain why we need a 
lower funds rate now, given that the data have improved and the risks of a weak-growth scenario 
have moderated. The economy has grown at an above-trend pace over the first half of the year, 
and labor markets are strong. Inflation has been running under 2 percent, but I don’t view that 
undershoot as overly concerning, since the data and models suggest that inflation will be firming 
over time. And even if one were concerned, with the majority of components of core inflation 
being acyclical, I’m skeptical that one or two 25 basis point cuts in the federal funds rate are 
going to do much to speed up a return to 2 percent inflation. In fact, implying that it could do so 
could very well be counterproductive, because if those actions don’t generate stronger inflation 
because of the structural or idiosyncratic factors, it will undermine our credibility, not enhance it. 
More than half of PCE inflation is acyclical or structural. So either we need to be much 
more aggressive with our policy in order to encourage a faster increase in the cyclical 
components to engender a faster return of inflation to target or we need to be more patient as the 
cyclical components rise with continued strength in the labor market. 
Now, one can consider this strategy an opportunistic approach to inflation. To avoid 
deleterious effects on inflation expectations, we need to explain that this is our strategy. My 
preference is to take this patient approach, given that our forecasts still have inflation gradually 

moving up. Currently, readings are not far from our goal, and inflation expectations remain well 
anchored. This strategy worked well in the 2014–16 period. 
President Evans’s framing yesterday of a question thinking about the costs of running the 
economy hot was salient for me. I’ve been thinking about this for a while, and, aside from any 
imbalances in financial stability, I think there are costs that come through the structural side of 
things—distortions in decisions of both workers and business owners. For workers, it’s perhaps 
opting for working versus getting more education, which can affect their future productivity. For 
businesses, it’s focusing on retaining and attracting workers rather than focusing on improving 
product offerings. In fact, several of our business contacts on our advisory council have 
mentioned that their ability to innovate has been lessened by how much time they’re spending on 
recruiting. So these both can be thought of as maybe a shifting intention from future benefits to 
current benefits, a type of short-termism that can affect longer-run productivity. And I think it’s 
related to some of our discussion yesterday about sustainability in these tradeoffs. 
So, obviously, these ideas aren’t well formulated yet. But I think they’re worth 
considering, and they really make me think that patience is likely to be more consistent with our 
balanced approach. 
Now, intermeeting communications may have likely precluded the ability to leave the 
target range for the federal funds rate unchanged today. Given the situation we’re in, I believe 
we have a very difficult communications challenge, so I agree with President Rosengren. You 
know, is the reason that we’re cutting rates today the inverted yield curve? Is it because inflation 
readings are low? Is it because the overall outlook for growth and inflation has changed 
significantly? Without a clearly articulated rationale for making a cut today, today’s actions 

could be read as the beginning of a series of cuts, which could be destabilizing. It could be 
misleading, as President Bostic said, about our own outlook. 
It could undermine efforts that have been taken to clarify our reaction function. Now, 
this is particularly a risk in my mind if we use the language from the June statement about 
uncertainty, which I took as a signal that we were ready to act in July. And I noticed that was 
reintroduced on Monday in the language in the statement. 
Also, it isn’t clear to me what will happen to the yield curve slope after today’s cut. 
Markets are expecting more than 25 basis points of easing this year. So it could be that the yield 
curve remains inverted. 
Former Chair Ben Bernanke’s “hall of mirrors” idea seems relevant here. If the FOMC is 
trying to infer signals from the market but the market is trying to anticipate what our policy 
actions will be, then by following the market, we could be driving rates away from fundamentals, 
not bringing them into alignment. And then, what will we do? Will we have to take another 
action? 
I agree with others that the proposed balance sheet action poses another communications 
challenge. Halting our balance sheet runoff a couple of months earlier than previously 
announced seems to run counter to our statement that we’re going to use the interest rate tool as 
our main policy tool. I don’t see an inconsistency with leaving the balance sheet plan in place 
while cutting the funds rate. It’s the combination of the two that determines the level of 
accommodation. 
In view of the current condition of the economy and the economic outlook, I’d like our 
communications to preserve our policy optionality. As we’ve seen, the data can move in 
unexpected ways, and our economy is quite resilient. Our meetings are spaced out precisely so 

we have the necessary time to gather economic information, evaluate whether it’s changed our 
medium-run outlook and the risks around that outlook, and assess whether our policy is well 
calibrated. 
Now, it’s possible the downside risks will rise or be realized—or that we’ll conclude that 
our policy is not well calibrated, as Governor Clarida and others pointed out yesterday, right? 
And that would necessitate a decrease in the funds rate later this year. But it’s also possible that 
the economy has more momentum than some think, that the strong income growth in the first 
quarter could lead to stronger-than-expected consumer spending, and that this, coupled with 
reduced uncertainty on trade policy or even static uncertainty on trade policy, could spur 
investment growth and lead to further strengthening in the economy, which would show through 
to market yields, too. We should be prepared for either outcome, and our communications 
should support the Committee as it continues to evaluate the evolution of the economy and the 
outlook. 
I understood from Chair Powell’s comments yesterday that he’s trying to maintain some 
of that optionality with his press conference remarks. And I noticed that he said that, as a part of 
his statement at the press conference, he’s going to say “In contemplating any further 
adjustments in the funds rate.” But I don’t see that in this postmeeting statement, and I wonder if 
perhaps that language might be added to the statement accompanying this rate cut. I don’t quite 
understand why we wouldn’t put that language in the postmeeting statement rather than putting it 
in the press conference statement. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. I might point out that late in the day yesterday, I added 
the word “any” inadvertently to the language you just mentioned. And I know you correctly 
wrote it down, but I incorrectly said the word “any.” That was not in there. 

MS. MESTER. I see. 
CHAIR POWELL. And we’ve had extensive discussions—about whether that language 
should go in the press conference statement or also in the meeting statement, and here’s where 
it’s come to rest. But it’s a fair question. 
MS. MESTER. Okay. Thanks. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The economy has been doing well this year, 
bolstered by confident consumers and a strong job market. Financial conditions are very 
accommodative, with borrowing rates low and the stock market at all-time highs. Fiscal and 
trade policy uncertainty has diminished but remains. 
Nonetheless, business investment has weakened, reflecting trade and global forces, and 
inflation remains soft. While the modal outlook is solid, the risks are still tilted to the downside. 
Taking into account the downside risks at a time when inflation is on the soft side supports the 
case for a 25 basis point cut in the target range for the federal funds rate, according to principles 
of risk management. 
The incoming data, though, have shown no indication that the expansion is at risk of 
ending. The pace of job growth, while slower than last year’s strong pace, is still strong enough 
to further bolster the prime-age employment-to-population ratio. And coincident indicators, such 
as initial claims for unemployment insurance, are at historical lows. The latest 12-month data on 
inflation remain soft, but the three-month data provide some reassurance that we’re likely to see 
slow but steady movement toward our 2 percent inflation objective. Some survey evidence 
suggests that the pall that has hung over the manufacturing sector this year may be lifting. 

So I would like to take some time to wait and see. If the economy were to slow more 
than I’m currently expecting, if recession risks failed to abate, or if inflation failed to move 
toward target, I would be open to additional rate cuts. However, the extended risk appetite in 
financial and credit markets and historically high leverage among risky corporate borrowers 
provide some reasons for caution. Experience suggests that rising financial imbalances, rather 
than price inflation, have precipitated the past several downturns. Financial market 
overoptimism is pro-cyclical. Current asset valuations and leveraged lending are consistent with 
that pattern. 
We should be addressing these financial imbalances by activation of the countercyclical 
capital buffer, more rigorous use of stress tests, and active monitoring of leveraged lending. 
Instead, payouts are exceeding earnings for the third year in a row, and capital buffers are falling. 
Short of deploying macroprudential tools, a cautious approach is our best hope of keeping 
exuberance in check while moving us toward our price-stability goal. 
I support a rate cut at this meeting, but beyond this I would want to take some time to 
assess how the outlook is evolving, just as we’ve done with all of our policy actions throughout 
this expansion. On the basis of the outlook and the balance of risks today, I don’t see the case 
for an additional reduction in the policy rate in September—although I’m open to it, should the 
data surprise me. 
I am concerned that the statement language will be seen as doubling down on 
expectations of a September cut, and, as a result, we will be pulled by market expectations rather 
than being guided by the data. Today’s policy easing, which combines an expected cut in the 
federal funds rate with an unexpected early end to balance sheet runoff, provides the best 

opportunity to recalibrate the language in order to have a gentle realignment of market 
expectations and regain optionality. 
As Trevor’s presentation indicated yesterday, market expectations already place a 
65 percent probability on an additional rate cut in September. We added the language “will act 
as appropriate” to the postmeeting statement in June to signal the near certainty of a rate cut in 
July. I’m concerned that, by repeating that phrase today, we will lock in market expectations of 
a rate cut in September. From what I’ve heard so far, signaling a rate cut in September doesn’t 
appear to reflect the views of the Chair or the Committee currently, which appear to be more 
dependent on the data. 
I’m not going to offer language today, because I recognize that the communication 
challenge is great. But I would have liked to see us moving the language one notch backward 
toward our May language, perhaps by reintroducing the notion that the Committee is monitoring 
incoming information as it determines whether future adjustments may be appropriate. That 
said, I am prepared to support alternative B, recognizing that this is a delicate and difficult time 
for communications. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’m quite conflicted with this decision. I’ve 
heard the arguments for cutting rates, but I simply do not think the economic fundamentals 
warrant such a decision. However, I think that we have boxed ourselves in as a Committee and 
this cut is inevitable. Thus, I can very reluctantly support the 25 basis point cut in the target 
range for the federal funds rate described in alternative B. But I don’t support the early end of 
balance sheet normalization. 

On the cut, in order for me to come to the view that I will support it, I must view the rate 
cut more as a recalibration of policy and not as the first step on a path to taking out more 
insurance via further cuts, as others have said. On ending the balance sheet normalization earlier 
than we had previously announced, I believe it is unnecessary, will confuse markets, and will 
send signals that will make both the normalization of the balance sheet and the conduct of future 
monetary policy more difficult. 
So let me explain briefly both of these views. While I share others’ concerns over the 
persistent undershooting of our inflation target and recent inconsistency of market-based 
expectations with that target, we do seem to be slowly making headway. Some recent readings 
on inflation have come in a bit stronger, and the economy seems to be on relatively solid footing. 
Trade policy developments have yet to affect the U.S. economy materially, and economic 
fundamentals appear strong. Additionally, the economies of our two major trading partners—
Canada and Mexico—are improving. An indication that the current rate cut is the start of even 
more accommodation could very well be misinterpreted and sow unease among the public over 
the state of the economy. That, in turn, will only serve to increase the likelihood that future rate 
cuts will be needed. 
On the balance sheet, a premature ending of the balance sheet runoff will only intensify 
that unwarranted signal. The Committee made clear in our communications that we expected the 
balance sheet normalization would be largely mechanical, and that the federal funds rate would 
be our primary policy instrument. The remaining runoff, as others have said, is inconsequential 
in size, so I see no reason to put balance sheet policy front and center. Doing so could easily be 
interpreted as the Committee being more concerned about the economy than is warranted, given 
the improvement in the most recent data, or that we are contemplating a return to additional asset 

purchases. Furthermore, emphasizing a change in balance sheet policy will make it more 
difficult to assure markets that when the balance sheet starts growing, along with reserves, later 
this year, that’s a natural step in normalization, not some part of a larger plan for more QE. 
Finally, I would like to highlight the conversation at our recent board of directors 
meeting. They, like the Committee, are very divided over the necessity of adding 
accommodation. Many at that meeting are confused. They were confused as to why we were 
taking this action and expressed deep concern about Federal Reserve independence and political 
pressure. While they did not believe, as a group, that we were in any way influenced by the 
current political climate, they hope—and, in some cases, ask—that we continue forcefully 
dispelling any perception that we are reacting to such processes and pressure. 
So, in conclusion, I cannot support alternative B as written. While I do not believe 
economic fundamentals warrant any change in the policy rate at this time, I, like my board, am 
reluctantly willing to go along with a 25 basis point cut, in view of the strong signal we have 
given to the market already. However, in light of the inclusion of the balance sheet paragraph, I 
must tilt to not supporting alt-B as written. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You know, this is a very tough meeting. Except 
for being in the midst of a full-fledged crisis, this is among the most difficult decisions, I think, 
the Committee ever faces. 
I think President Bullard framed this quite well. We’re looking for the level of the 
federal funds rate that seems most appropriate for the economy. Are we neutral, restrictive, or 
accommodative? And it’s a lot easier when we kind of see—we want to be up here, and we’re 
here, so we can see the path, or things like that. So I think this is very difficult. I have great 

respect for everybody’s opinions that they’ve expressed. I think somebody has to make a choice, 
and I think that’s the role of leadership in this. 
I will support alternative B and the associated balance sheet action today, although I 
prefer alt-A—its language and its 50 basis point cut. Regarding alt-B, I have some reservations 
about how the statement describes our rationale for cutting rates. Mainly, I’m concerned that 
we’re being too timid in the face of the continued underrun of inflation relative to our symmetric 
target and the downward shocks we have faced in recent years. Those risks remain. That is why 
I would give overshooting inflation a chance. 
Regarding growth, the incoming data on economic activity generally have been positive. 
Indeed, with a baseline projection for growth at or a bit above trend, there does not seem to be a 
strong case for a rate cut on the grounds of the baseline projection. However, important 
uncertainties remain—namely, trade policy, slowing global growth, and Brexit—which I do 
believe support a move on a risk-management basis. But, for me, the most straightforward and 
important reason to cut rates is persistently low inflation. In the current setting, the risk is not 
doing too much—it’s being timid and doing too little. 
Now, I will note, I heard Governor Brainard’s comments on financial instability risks and 
their link to past economic risks and downturns that we’ve faced. That gives me pause. I am 
assuming that the state of our financial stability regulation is strong—strong enough to focus on 
our monetary policy dual-mandate responsibilities. 
For me, the language in alt-B doesn’t quite align with my views on where I think the 
inflation risks are. The commentary that inflation has been “running below 2 percent” but is 
expected to rise toward target has been in our statement for a long time now without any 
substantial progress. Furthermore, the reference to “muted inflation pressures” in paragraph 2 

almost sounds like an afterthought and is a much softer characterization than my view of the 
current policy challenge. I prefer the language in alternative A that refers to “inflation running 
persistently below 2 percent.” This language more explicitly expresses a rationale for lowering 
the policy rate as a proactive effort to increase inflation. I think this language has a better chance 
of being effective. 
Indeed, there’s a strong argument for incorporating not only alt-A’s language on 
inflation, but also its 50 basis point rate cut. Our repeated failure to meet our inflation goal puts 
our credibility over the symmetric inflation target at risk. A 50 basis point action today that was 
tied closely to the inflation outlook would be a forceful communication of commitment to our 
symmetric inflation objective. 
In seeking to keep the expansion going, giving inflation overshooting a chance would 
help. Like President Daly, I see little downside risk to aggressive action tied to inflation. If 
inflation pressures are stronger than I currently think, a rate cut would simply help get us to our 
inflation objective a bit sooner. There’s nothing wrong with that. 
I also worry that alt-B’s attempt to preserve optionality could negate the value of a rate 
cut today. The discussion yesterday and today suggests to me a high tolerance by the Committee 
for a single rate cut, if it has to be done, and a lack of concern if inflation improvement stalls 
once again. I worry this would promote a lot of confusing commentary about fine-tuning, regret, 
and other such issues. With only 25 basis points today in alt-B, I think the “prepared to make 
further adjustments in the target range” language in alt-A would communicate an appropriately 
stronger tilt toward additional easing to address our inflation problem and support sustaining the 
recovery. This language would be useful for emphasizing risk-management considerations. 

Nevertheless, I will support alternative B today in its current state. If I thought our policy 
decision and near-term communications strategy conveyed too much complacency over our 
strategy for delivering symmetric 2 percent inflation, I’d have more concerns. But today I 
support alternative B. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B. I believe the 
economic outlook is stabilizing, with real GDP growth around 2 percent for 2019, although I do 
think trade tensions persisting and global growth deceleration are real risks. 
With headline inflation running below our 2 percent target—I’d point out that the Dallas 
trimmed mean, though, is still running around 2 percent—I would emphasize that we expect 
inflationary forces to remain muted due primarily to structural forces rather than cyclical forces. 
As I’ve said before, I would again emphasize that I question how much these structural forces 
are susceptible to being addressed by monetary policy. 
Having said all of that, I do believe the yield curve is flashing a signal that the federal 
funds rate is out of alignment with market-determined rates. This situation has persisted. It’s 
gotten worse since May 1. But it feels to me like it’s going to continue to persist. With a clean 
sheet of paper, I would have said that the federal funds rate is 25 to 50 basis points too high 
relative to market-determined rates. Or—said another way—I think it is 25 to 50 basis points too 
high relative to the strength and the potential of this economy in the aftermath of fiscal stimulus 
and with fiscal stimulus waning. 
At the Dallas Fed, we’ve been running a modified Taylor rule calculation in parallel for 
some time now. And when I say “modified,” we use a lower natural rate of unemployment than 
the Board staff, and we’ve been using a modified intercept. In running that calculation, we’ve 

come to the conclusion, as a reality check, that we, again, are about 25 to 50 basis points too high 
on the federal funds rate. 
I believe it would be prudent to make an adjustment to the policy rate so it is better 
aligned to market-determined rates. I would emphasize that this is a modest, restrained, and 
limited tactical move, not a signaling of a fundamental change in strategy suggesting the 
beginning of a rate-cutting cycle, a fundamental shift in the FOMC’s framework, or a change in 
our reaction function. It is not a shift away from a balanced approach to monetary policy where 
we’re willing to offset the undershoot in one objective with an overshoot in the other objective. 
In terms of communication, I would support making the adjustment today, but 
accompanied by a signal that we will be patient. I know we’ve stopped using that word, but 
something along the lines of “We’ll be patient and continue to monitor incoming economic 
data.” I think, as President Bullard said, I support a wait-and-see posture. 
I would also be open to the language that Governor Brainard threw out about 
“whether”—using that word. I know the markets may be disappointed by that. I hope they are. 
While I do believe a second move may, in fact, be needed down the road, I’m also very 
concerned about market probabilities pricing in three or four rate-cut moves. And I think our 
thinking and our communication have to take account of that concern. I, for one, would want to 
see more evidence of weakness in the outlook, of the prospect of real GDP growth below 
potential growth, before embarking on more than a tactical adjustment in the federal funds rate. 
I mentioned this yesterday—and this is not for this meeting, as we’ve got enough on our 
plate, God knows, for this meeting—but I would still want to put on the table for the future 
whether we could wean off this language related to sustaining the expansion. And let me explain 
again why. There are limits—and I think it’s important that the market sees that there are 

limits—to how far we’re willing to create excesses and imbalances in order to extend the 
expansion. My fear is, if excesses and imbalances build excessively, that, in fact, will make it 
harder for this and future Committees to achieve our dual-mandate objectives on a sustainable 
basis. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. As I look at the map, I’m reminded that Richmond is geographically 
closest to Cleveland, Atlanta, and Philadelphia. So I believe I will be repeating what my 
colleagues at those three Banks said, which is that today’s move makes me uncomfortable. And 
I would agree with those who would suggest that moving again in September feels quick. 
Over and over, I’ve had contacts ask me why we think we need a rate cut so urgently. 
My board pushed me hard on this, with questions that echoed President Rosengren’s words from 
the previous meeting and this meeting, which I might paraphrase as “With growth above trend, 
unemployment at 50-year lows, the market at all-time highs, corporate lending a bit “frothy,” and 
inflation close to target, why use your scarce ammunition now?” And this case seems even 
stronger today than it was at our previous meeting. 
As we discuss this statement, I hear three possible rationales for moving now to cut the 
federal funds rate. And, of course, they can be combined. A cut could be insurance at a time of 
uncertainty. For this rationale, I’m challenged by the data. The economy’s growth, 
employment, and inflation seem to be headed in the right, not the wrong, direction. Uncertainty 
seems, if anything, lower. And it’s hard to see evidence that the current policy stance is 
constraining—even in the most direct transmission markets, like autos. For sure, something bad 
could happen, either globally or politically, but that concern seems like a constant these days. If 
we move now, under what circumstances wouldn’t we make a similar move in the future? If the 

concern we have is business confidence, what makes us think firms’ investment posture will shift 
based on a modest change in what they already see as historically low rates? Put differently, 
might it not be better insurance to save our scarce dry powder for when we truly need it? 
Alternatively, a cut might support our efforts to meet our symmetric inflation target. And 
I can see the case here, given our multiyear underperformance. I do wonder, though, if “the juice 
is worth the squeeze,” particularly after taking account of the strength of the recent data. In view 
of what I said yesterday about the embedded nature of sectoral pricing dynamics, I’m concerned 
this won’t have a visible effect on inflation or inflation expectations in any nearby period. If 
true, then what would be our next move—further rate cuts? If so, it’s easy to imagine that logic 
leading us inexorably toward the lower bound. But I might argue that Japan and Europe have 
been there for quite a while without stimulating the inflation in the way we aspire to. Or, if 
we’re too successful and we overstimulate the economy, can we count on the economy being 
healthy enough to bear the rate increases necessary to control it? 
Of course, we can justify a cut by pointing to the markets. Either they know something 
we don’t or not cutting will lead to a market reaction that will shake the economy. Perhaps this 
happened in December. I can’t deny the likelihood of a market rout if we don’t cut today. But 
this, too, makes me uncomfortable, as I believe we’ve been the ones moving the markets as they 
overparse our statements rather than the data. It’s not healthy for markets to be this overindexed 
on us. We somehow need to find a way to send a message. So if we do make this cut, then I 
support Governor Brainard, President Kaplan, and others who’ve said, “Let’s accompany it by 
finding a way to reset expectations.” 
Net, I guess my risk-management assessment is different. The upside of today’s move is 
modest, unless there are data we aren’t seeing. If the upside isn’t realized, its logic will hasten 

our path to the effective lower bound that we fear. No move is costless, and this one spends 
some of our precious firepower, unmoors our decision rationale from its historical 
underpinnings, and potentially messages that we see hidden economic and/or inflation 
weaknesses. It will tempt a market reaction that will engender even more dependence than 
today. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In March of this year, I lowered my 
estimates of appropriate policy, shifting to a flat policy rate path. At that time, the outlook called 
for growth moderating to trend in the face of downside risk stemming from a weaker global 
outlook and heightened trade policy uncertainty. Data from the first half of this year indicate 
that economic conditions have largely unfolded in line with my outlook. Real GDP growth has 
moderated, as expected, with strong household spending but weaker-than-expected business 
investment. In my view, the outlook has not fundamentally changed, and I continue to see our 
current policy settings as appropriate today, along the lines of alternative C. 
Although widely expected at this meeting, a 25 basis point reduction does not seem 
warranted when the economy is growing above trend, labor markets are healthy, and consumers 
remain optimistic and are spending. I’m also skeptical that easing policy will be effective in 
moving inflation higher. After years of accommodative policy, inflation has shown little interest 
in adhering to historical norms or Phillips curve theory, while trade and global developments 
over the past year appear to be exerting additional downward pressure. It seems to me that 
today’s circumstances call for relying on a balanced approach, as referenced in our Statement on 
Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. Reacting to muted inflation pressures seems 

less compelling in the context of a strong labor market, with an unemployment rate that sits 
below most estimates of its longer-run level and an economy that continues to grow above trend. 
Although I do not support the action in alternative B today, I am prepared to adjust our 
policy settings in the months ahead should economic activity fundamentally shift the outlook for 
the economy. With downside risk prominent and heightened market sensitivity to central bank 
communications, being data dependent seems particularly important now. Doing so will provide 
the flexibility that the Committee needs as it seeks to set policy to achieve our dual mandate. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as currently written, and 
I appreciate the perspectives that President Bullard and President Evans provided on finding the 
appropriate level of the federal funds rate in the course of our policy normalization. 
It remains my baseline expectation that the domestic economy will perform well in 2019. 
The unemployment rate remains at its lowest level in decades, and various indicators point to the 
continued strength in labor demand and hiring activity. The BEA reported that real GDP 
increased at a solid rate of 2.6 percent over the first half of the year, with much of that strength 
reflecting momentum in consumer spending growth, and financing conditions for both 
households and businesses appear favorable. 
But since our June meeting, the outlook for economic growth abroad has once again been 
downgraded, and uncertainties about trade negotiations and the step-down in global trade have 
persisted. We’re already seeing signs that the concerns about global developments are beginning 
to weigh on activity in the business sector—most notably, earnings expectations for capital 
goods producers have moved down sharply, and measures of business sentiment remain lower. 

There appears to be some risk that business investment and manufacturing activity here in the 
United States may weaken more than in the staff’s baseline forecast. 
In addition, we’ve fallen short of our inflation target so far this year. Although 2 percent 
does not seem to be an unreachable target should labor market conditions tighten to the point that 
they apply upward pressure on wages, we have yet to see much of this effect. The inflation 
shortfall this year could be concerning when viewed against the backdrop of lower inflation 
expectations, as shown by the downtrend in median long-run inflation expectations in the 
Michigan survey. The fact that we’ve not yet achieved our 2 percent inflation objective for an 
extended period, despite being well into an economic expansion, is also a relevant consideration 
at this point. 
In sum, given all of the information we currently have in hand, in my view, the balance of 
risks and available data support making a modest downward adjustment to our policy stance. 
My expectation is that this should be sufficient to bolster confidence and support the continued 
economic expansion, but I will continue to watch the incoming data closely, especially for signs 
that inflation is firming. I will also monitor the economic data for signs that the uncertain global 
outlook threatens the positive outlook for economic performance here at home. 
Additional warning signs in either of these areas may lead me to change my assessment 
for the appropriate path of monetary policy. I also agree with Governor Brainard and Presidents 
Barkin and Kaplan that we need to reset the expectations for future movements in the federal 
funds rate through our communications. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written—not free of 
reservation, but I have many reservations about our imperfect world, yet life must go on. 

I see three potentially persuasive rationales for supporting a rate cut at this meeting, only 
one of which I find actually persuasive—and then only on the basis of certain reasonable but not 
inarguable assumptions. The first rationale might be concerns over inflation and slipping 
inflation expectations. Inflation pressures are certainly subdued, but that’s a good thing, and I 
don’t find the current shortfall in core PCE inflation to be that concerning. As the transitory 
factors that depressed prices in the first quarter fade, I expect inflation to move back up toward 
2 percent on a year-over-year basis. Measures of inflation are imprecise. Measures of inflation 
expectations are difficult to interpret, especially as market-based measures seem overly 
influenced by movements in oil prices. 
Second, the rate cut could be justified by signs of economic slowing. The rate reduction 
could reflect our data dependence. The case here is certainly not clear cut. The domestic data 
remain quite good—strong consumption growth and a continued robust labor market. As 
mentioned yesterday, the global picture is more troubling, with more definitive signs of slowing 
growth, although I think it’s interesting that the staff’s estimate of the quantitative feedback of 
global growth developments to the United States since the June meeting actually reflects a slight 
positive for our growth prospects, reflecting increases in growth projections in Canada and 
Mexico and the great deal of trade that we do with those countries relative to the rest of the 
world. Overall, while admitting that the outlook is unclear, all else being equal, I would not be 
inclined to cut rates today on the basis of the data alone, taking into account the full force of the 
Chair’s point that he made yesterday—that, in part, financial conditions are where they are today 
because people are expecting this cut. 
That brings me to the third potential rationale—heightened risks and the opportunity to 
take out an insurance cut. So while along some dimensions—trade tensions and the debt 

ceiling—risks to the outlook appear to have diminished since June, I completely share the 
Chair’s assessment that he expressed yesterday that this decline in risks, especially with respect 
to China trade tensions, is deceptive. I think that the public, markets, and perhaps this group 
have taken too much signal from the fact that people left Osaka without a shooting war having 
actually broken out in the South China Sea, and there is much less there than people have been 
expecting. On top of that, we’re entering a volatile political season. I find it highly unlikely that 
trade tensions will diminish much further—even from what I think is the more elevated level that 
they’re actually at rather than what people are currently perceiving—and, indeed, quite likely 
that tensions could escalate rapidly. 
So, given the assumption that trade tensions quite likely could escalate rapidly, I am 
comfortable with today’s rate cut, but I don’t, at this point, see the case for making further cuts 
later in the year. Like others, I’d be quick to reassess that if the data were to deteriorate or risks 
were to increase meaningfully further—again, beyond what I’m already baking in to be 
comfortable with the cut today. I think the market has gotten ahead of itself in terms of 
expecting future rate cuts. Like many, I would like to maintain some optionality on our 
decisions later this year. But in that regard, I’m very supportive of the Chair’s strategy that he 
described yesterday, which is not to try to move markets in one fell swoop to that conclusion, but 
to take the opportunity for the various communication events that will happen during the course 
of the intermeeting period to try to move the markets in that direction and to give us more 
optionality. 
Finally, on ending the balance sheet runoff two months early, this change seems fairly 
minor and inconsequential to me from both a financial and a policy perspective. I supported 
halting our balance sheet reduction at the original September date, having concluded from the 

Sturm und Drang in December and the caterwauling over the couple of months that followed that 
the people stirring the pot over this issue were either cynical or ineducable [laughter], and that 
the key would be to hold the balance sheet steady for a long enough time to shrink it relative to 
GDP as we take steps to further decrease banks’ demand for reserves rather than potentially 
restart that frustrating and certainly fruitless education effort of six months ago. I have no 
problem starting that process on August 1 rather than September 30. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative A at this meeting, 
but with a twist that, as I did last time, I would encourage us to add forward guidance that after 
we cut by 50 basis points we will commit to hold the federal funds rate or not raise it until we see 
core inflation return to our target in a sustainable manner. 
I was really struck by President George’s comment yesterday at the end of the meeting. 
This is about Trevor’s chart showing the SEP PCE inflation forecasts. This is what a picture of a 
ceiling looks like. Whether we meant to or not, we have taught the markets that our reaction 
function is that our 2 percent inflation target is a ceiling, and that, to me, is why inflation 
expectations are less than we would like them to be. And now we need to teach the markets a 
different reaction function. As, much to my surprise, folks on that end of the table, Presidents 
Mester, Bostic, and Rosengren—maybe I’m leaving some out—said today, I don’t think 25 basis 
points today is going to be enough to demonstrate that we, in fact, have a different reaction 
function that treats 2 percent as a symmetric inflation target. That’s why I think my forward 
guidance is a step in that direction. 
Now, one thing I heard the Chair say, which I agree with, is, I don’t want to make a 
commitment that we will do whatever it takes to raise inflation to our 2 percent goal, because we 

may not, in fact, be able to achieve it. But my forward guidance is not that strong a commitment. 
It’s simply saying we’re not going to raise rates until we succeed. Number one, it doesn’t 
guarantee success. Number two, it doesn’t prevent us from further reducing the target range for 
the federal funds rate or taking other actions. It’s a stronger form of forward guidance than I 
think has been used historically, but it’s not the ultimate form of forward guidance and does not 
guarantee success. 
You know, my base case is not that we are Japan. I think there are important differences 
between us and Japan, demographics being number one, but I do think we have to learn from 
Japan. If we wanted a strategy to follow the Bank of Japan strategy, what would we do? We’d 
cut 25 basis points now, we’d follow the data, we’d cut 25 basis points later in the year, and we 
would slowly walk to the effective lower bound. And then once we get there, we would declare, 
“Okay, now it’s our decision to stay here”—you know, ending up in a ditch and pretending that 
it’s your choice to stay in the ditch. That’s why I think it’s much better to err on the side of 
being accommodative and being aggressive to avoid hitting the lower bound in the first place 
rather than pretending that you’re going to stay there by choice. So that’s why I support 
alternative A, which includes a 50 basis point cut, with the addition of this forward guidance. 
The last comment I’ll make—and I want to just go back to something that Charlie said 
yesterday about being precise on what the costs are to running the economy hot. If we get to a 
hot economy, what are the costs? One that we talked about is financial market imbalances. Is it 
imbalances, or is it just repricing of financial assets? That’s hard to know for sure. 
And then, both President Daly and President Mester—neither of you were putting a hard 
line in the sand, but both of you mentioned the notion of, if the economy is hot, some people may 
choose to take jobs as opposed to getting education. I’ve got to tell you, that gives me great 

discomfort—that we would be in the business of telling people we’re going to not let the 
economy get hot because we want you to make different choices with your life. I mean, if the 
economy is hot, and people have jobs, and they choose to take jobs, God bless them for making 
that choice. That’s their choice to make. And, again, I know neither of you were saying that—
that’s a strong view but that’s just my reaction to something that both of you mentioned. 
So that’s why I think it would be really great for all of us to be very precise on what we 
think the costs are if the economy gets hot and then have a really frank discussion: Is it 
appropriate for us to respond to those potential costs? Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B. As I 
indicated yesterday, slowing domestic growth, a weak and uncertain global outlook, and very 
muted inflation pressures all argue in favor of a somewhat more accommodative policy stance. 
Now, one may be tempted to put weight on the strength of household spending and 
financial conditions and bet on these being sustained even with an unchanged policy stance. But, 
as has already been mentioned a number of times, these very favorable financial conditions and 
all that comes with them are a result of expectations of a more accommodative policy stance 
already. Maintaining the current level of interest rates would lead to a tightening of financial 
conditions, with negative implications for the economy. 
This is not an argument that we have to follow the markets. The argument is, we’ve got 
to do the right thing. The markets are reading our communications—whether it’s our statements 
or other communications—and coming to a conclusion about where we’re going. So I don’t see 
this as being boxed in or cornered by the markets. It’s really, that alternative B is the right policy 
stance to best achieve our goals and manage the risks, as others have said. 

The low levels of inflation and inflation expectations have really sapped my confidence 
in a rapid return of inflation to our 2 percent goal. And, like President Kashkari, we all should be 
looking at the SEP PCE inflation chart from Trevor’s briefing. I’ve been on this Committee 
throughout these years. These are my forecasts. I’ve been pretty much close to the median 
forecaster throughout this period, and I have learned a lot from this experience, and Governor 
Clarida has highlighted important lessons numerous times, I think. One is that u*, the natural 
rate of unemployment or what is a sustainable level of unemployment, is clearly a lot lower than 
we thought. And r* is lower than we thought. Changes in the inflation process, the weakness 
abroad, which is one of the factors that’s held down inflation—inflation has been held down by 
structural and other factors. 
There’s a lot of learning on the way. But still, this pattern of consistently—and 
predictably, in a way—overpredicting inflation and being overly confident about the return of 
inflation to its goal, I think, should teach us, one, that the world has changed in important ways 
that should affect our decisions and, two, the importance of actually delivering, in a consistent, 
sustained way, on our symmetric 2 percent goal, given this past history. 
Additional accommodation in a timely fashion, I do think, does support moving inflation 
back to our 2 percent goal. This is in the context of a strong economy. I think this is an 
important point. A lot of people think, well, do we just want inflation to be higher? It’s part of 
wanting a strong economy—sustain the expansion to support our dual-mandate goals. So I think 
all of the arguments for moving to a somewhat more accommodative policy are aligned. We 
want to offset some negative influences on the economy. We want to keep growth around or a 
little bit above trend. We want unemployment to be roughly around 3½ to 3¾ percent. We want 
to see inflation moving up. 

So I think these all make sense. Will they be game changers? Like President Kashkari, I 
was struck by the strong call by a number of my colleagues in the map section for a 50 basis 
point cut. But I don’t think that that is actually the right answer at this time, because, as many 
have said and as President Evans, I think, appropriately said, this is a difficult decision. There 
are strong arguments on one side. There are strong arguments on the other side. That argues for 
perhaps some moderation in how we proceed at this point. 
I think that we have seen that inflation expectations responded positively to our 
communications over the past six weeks, showing that our actions and our communication do 
affect the public’s view of our commitment to our 2 percent symmetric goal. Obviously, I am 
influenced pretty strongly by the experience of Japan, the euro area, and elsewhere, where 
inflation expectations have drifted lower, and that has long-run consequences for how much 
policy space we have to deal with future downturns. 
Now, looking further ahead, I continue to expect that a further rate cut may well be 
warranted this year. However, with today’s action, we are well positioned to collect and observe 
more data and more information—in advance of making that decision. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And thanks for a great discussion. I would echo what 
President Evans said about really being able to see both sides of the case. After hearing all of the 
arguments again, though, I do feel this is the right decision, to make a rate cut today. I do feel 
that it’s actually very possible to communicate the rationale for it, and I think the rationale will 
be accepted in general—obviously though, not by everybody, that’s for sure. 
But I think the far more challenging issue in this press conference and this meeting 
concerns what we say about the future and how to communicate that in the statement and in the 
press conference statement. So what I’m going to do is call a coffee break and ask people to 

have some coffee or maybe the decaf [laughter]—try the decaf—and come back in about 
15 minutes. 
I want to think in a small group about the communications. I’m taking to heart some of 
the comments that people made about maybe gently creating more optionality without—I don’t 
think it’s going to be appropriate to call a hard stop and say “We’re done unless things get 
worse” or something like that, because I don’t think that’s where the Committee is, either. But 
there may be more we can do, so I’m going to do that now. 
So we’ll be back, why don’t we say, at 20 of 11:00. That’s 20 minutes from now. Thank 
you. 
 [Coffee break] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. The coffee break’s over. My thought is that the statement 
here should really do the work and express the consensus of the Committee and the views of 
people around the table and not leave a lot of work to be done in the press conference statement. 
So we’ve been considering not making any change or making one particular change to paragraph 
2, which I’ll ask Trevor to read out. And, again, the idea is to create optionality and give me a 
basis for discussing data dependence in answer to the question on how we will determine the 
future path of policy that will inevitably be asked during the press conference. 
MR. REEVE. Okay. What we have on the table is the augmentation of the last sentence 
of paragraph 2 of alternative B. It would state “As the Committee contemplates potential future 
adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, it will continue to monitor the 
implications of incoming information for the economic outlook and will act as appropriate to 
sustain the expansion, with a strong labor market and inflation near its symmetric 2 percent 
objective.” So that sentence remains unchanged after the “continue to monitor.” And, again, the 

beginning is “As the Committee contemplates potential future adjustments to the target range for 
the federal funds rate, it will continue to monitor . . .” 
CHAIR POWELL. I think you need to know what I would plan to say when people ask 
me what the added phrase means. And what I’ll say is, “Well, as I explained, here are the 
reasons why we made the adjustment in our policy stance, and those same factors will be the 
things that the Committee is going to be looking at over time.” Or—I won’t say “over time,” but 
“the things it’ll be looking at” and talk about the factors one by one. So the sense of it clearly is, 
we’re going to be looking at these things, which makes it pretty obvious that we haven’t decided 
to move in September. But it also doesn’t say that we’re not going to be looking at moving, or 
that we’ve gone to completely neutral and things have to get worse for us to move, or anything 
like that. I throw that open for discussion—Loretta. 
MS. MESTER. Okay. To my ears, because you’re saying “potential future 
adjustments”— 
CHAIR POWELL. “Contemplates potential future adjustments.” 
MS. MESTER. Yes. The addition of that language seems to suggest more of a chance 
you’re going to be cutting, not less. 
MR. EVANS. Yes, I thought so, too. 
MR. QUARLES. I would agree with that, not having reflected on it. But then, most 
people who hear it won’t have reflected on it, either. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Instead of “adjustments,” you could use the word “path,” and that 
doesn’t—the “adjustments” has a connotation of “down.” The “path” is a little bit less 
directional—something like that might not give a direction, necessarily. 

VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So, “contemplates the future path of the target range for the 
federal funds rate.” 
MR. ROSENGREN. Yes. 
MR. HARKER. That’s better. It is better. 
CHAIR POWELL. “Adjustments to the path”? 
MR. HARKER. No. 
MS. DALY. No, “contemplates the future path.” 
MR. HARKER. Yes. 
MR. EVANS. I’m fine with that. I was of the opinion that President Mester and 
Governor Quarles were—the comment about how “adjustments,” if anything, leans a little bit 
more toward a future cut or something like that. But I don’t have a problem— 
MR. QUARLES. That’s the future path. I would think that’s perfect, but I could 
probably belong on that end of the table. [Laughter] 
MS. MESTER. Come on down. [Laughter] 
MR. KASHKARI. Trevor, can you read it again? 
MR. REEVE. Which version? The “path” version or the other one? 
MR. KASHKARI. Either one. 
MR. REEVE. The original suggestion: “As the Committee contemplates potential future 
adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, it will continue to monitor the 
implications of incoming information for the economic outlook and will act as appropriate.” 
MR. BARKIN. What’s the alternative? 
MR. REEVE. The other version: “As the Committee contemplates the future path for 
the federal funds rate . . .” 

CHAIR POWELL. I mean, “potential future adjustments” is kind of neutral, too, isn’t it? 
MR. BARKIN. No, no. 
MR. LAUBACH. I mean, everything hinges, arguably, on the words and how the word 
“potential” is taken, right? Because I think, in the interpretation that we had discussed, it’s not a 
foregone conclusion. 
CHAIR POWELL. “Potential changes to the future path of the federal funds rate”? 
MR. BOSTIC. “Contemplates the future path”—I think the concern is, the focus on 
adjustments suggests that our bias is toward action and doing something. By taking the action 
out of it and just saying, “There’s a path, we’re going to think about what that is, and then, once 
we figure out what that path should look like, we might act”—it’s a little more distant from the 
action space. 
CHAIR POWELL. But that goes further than I’m looking to go. Mary. 
MS. DALY. Oh, okay. The way I heard it, with “adjustments,” is that, given that we 
were doing a rate cut today, “further adjustments”—people will baseline it off the cut and just 
naturally assume that the adjustment can only go one way. I think it’s generally neutral if you 
don’t move the rate, but if you move the rate and then say “adjustments,” it has a carry-on effect, 
potentially. So I like the original language better. 
MR. KAPLAN. I would stick with the original language also. I’m fearful of making 
people think we’re actively considering future— 
MR. QUARLES. Future adjustments. 
MR. KAPLAN. I don’t think they should come away thinking we’re actively planning to 
cut rates further—we’re basically going to monitor data first. Then we’re going to figure out, as 
this period goes on, whether there’s any reason to move. But I like the current language better. 

CHAIR POWELL. So, let me say, do people broadly, then, think that the current 
statement language creates a lot of optionality for us? 
MR. KAPLAN. No. 
CHAIR POWELL. Then am I supposed to go do it in the press conference? I mean, it— 
MR. KAPLAN. It depends on how you’ll answer the question. The question will be 
“The market has priced in three or four rate cuts over the next X periods. Does the market have 
it wrong, or what’s your comment on market probabilities for this many rate cuts?” They’re 
going to ask that. 
MR. QUARLES. They will ask whatever this says. 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes, but that’s on me. That’s not the Committee. That’s on me in 
the press conference. I think alternative B as written is roughly a neutral statement. Maybe—it’s 
hard to say, actually, but it’s roughly a neutral statement. And then, if the Committee wants to 
adjust expectations toward more optionality, then let the Committee do that. I don’t think it’s 
good communication to issue what will be seen as a dovish statement and then have me going 
back into the press conference and pull it back. I think my communications at the press 
conference, which will convey optionality about September, should be very consistent with 
what’s in the statement, and I’m worried that alternative B as written does nothing to create more 
optionality regarding September. So I’m trying to address your concerns here. 
MR. BARKIN. Jay, I’m sure you don’t need line editing, but another idea would be to 
remove the “uncertainties” clause. I mean, you are hanging this on the global developments and 
the muted inflation pressures, I think, more than the uncertainties. And if you just remove the 
“but uncertainties about this outlook remain,” arguably, that makes it less forward leaning on 

uncertainties. It doesn’t change the “forward leaning” on inflation or global growth. I don’t 
know if that helps. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Can I— 
CHAIR POWELL. Go ahead. Yes, jump in. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Okay. I think that removing “uncertainties” turns the dial a 
notch. But the problem is, uncertainties are a key part of the narrative from the previous meeting 
from the risk management perspective that a number of people highlighted. So the problem with 
the statement without “uncertainties” is that the whole risk-management component is lost, and 
that creates the question: “Well, does that mean there are no uncertainties anymore?” That’s not 
a part of it. So I think— 
MR. BARKIN. And you don’t think you could point to global developments? That 
may— 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Well, that was the idea at that point when we were doing 
that, but— 
MS. MESTER. Well, if it’s part of the rationale, maybe the uncertainties belong in your 
list of things, which are global developments, muted inflation pressures, and uncertainties. 
CHAIR POWELL. “Global developments” is kind of code for “uncertainties.” 
MS. MESTER. Yes—well, it’s code, but if you moved up “uncertainties” into your list 
of things, it’s part of your rationale for doing something today. And then you could delete it later 
in the statement, because that phrase, “but uncertainties,” was the trigger of saying at the 
previous meeting that we’re going to do something at this meeting. And then it was, basically, 
intermeeting communication reinforced that view. So you could say “global developments for 
the economic outlook, the uncertainties surrounding that outlook, as well as muted inflation 

pressures” and put in “uncertainties” there because it is part of your rationale, because you’re 
thinking of this as an insurance cut. 
CHAIR POWELL. I’m losing the thread here. How does that help create optionality? 
MS. MESTER. Well, it takes out the “but uncertainties about this outlook remain,” 
because that clause was the thing that triggered—right?—in the minds of the public that we were 
going to be setting up a cut at this meeting. 
CHAIR POWELL. If you say “in light of uncertainties,” you’re kind of promoting them, 
too, rather than having them just “remain,” you know? I’m not sure there’s a—am I missing the 
point here? 
MR. BARKIN. One is past, and one is future. So when you say “in light of global 
developments, uncertainties, and muted inflation,” that’s why we made this particular decision. 
When you have that thought at the back, it’s almost pointed at the future. I take John’s point—
that was very right—which is, maybe you want to point at that. 
CHAIR POWELL. Which is what? Yes. 
MR. EVANS. Can I offer a different— 
CHAIR POWELL. Charlie. 
MR. EVANS. Let me take one crack at this, which is, to create optionality, you kind of 
want to turn the clock back a couple of meetings, before we started talking about this. And the 
language that you have, “the Committee will continue to monitor”—if you could find a clause, 
and I don’t have it, but something like “As the Committee has done since last spring, the 
Committee will continue to monitor.” If there was some kind of phrase that lets you refer to a 
couple of meetings ago, where the environment was before you were doing this, that might— 
CHAIR POWELL. We can say “as always.” 

MS. DALY. As always. 
CHAIR POWELL. But then you have to explain what that means. No one knows what 
that means, and that means I get to fill it up with meaning—hawkish meaning. So let’s have the 
Committee say what it means. I mean, maybe that’s the right answer—sort of a de minimis 
answer. Rob. 
MR. KAPLAN. You’re not going to like this suggestion—or maybe not you, but people 
around the table—but let me make it anyhow [laughter]: “The Committee will continue to 
monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook.” And I would love 
to say, instead of “will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion,” “as it seeks to achieve its 
dual mandate of . . .” 
CHAIR POWELL. All of the market commentary we have suggests that that would be 
the bomb. That would be taking it too far. 
MR. KAPLAN. Too far. Okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes. Right. Do it all in one sentence. 
MR. KAPLAN. That’s fine. I got it. 
MR. HARKER. To pile on to something you’re probably not going to like [laughter]— 
CHAIR POWELL. Please. 
MR. HARKER. —because we don’t like touching paragraph 3. One way of creating a 
little bit of optionality, in my mind, is to just change the first sentence in paragraph 3: “In 
determining the timing and size of any further adjustments to the federal funds rate . . .” 
CHAIR POWELL. See, this paragraph talks in a way that’s completely—this is just our 
objective function. 
MR. HARKER. Well, I know. I understand. That’s why it won’t work. 

CHAIR POWELL. We’re not pulling a sign of our policy outlook into paragraph 3. I 
mean, you’ve got to signal the policy outlook in the second paragraph. 
MR. BULLARD. Is your feeling that you don’t have enough optionality to move 
again—that the current language is too restrictive? 
CHAIR POWELL. No. My feeling is, you have a market that sees a two-thirds 
probability that we’re going to move in September. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. 
CHAIR POWELL. This statement does nothing to pull that back, in my opinion—or 
risks doing nothing. Let me finish. So I go into the press conference, and I should be delivering 
the same message that is broadly consistent with the statement. I think that takes the probability 
of a cut in September to close to 100 percent, probably, given the fact that we didn’t cut by 50 
basis points this meeting. All of the people who expected 50 basis points, you can add that 
probability on top of September now so I think you get close to 100 percent, and then we have a 
full intermeeting period to try to create optionality. I mean, no one has any certainty about how 
this works, but that would be my guess. So I’m trying to create optionality in the direction of 
being able to take some time, as you suggested, to wait and see. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. 
CHAIR POWELL. The idea would be, over coming meetings—or the idea that it doesn’t 
have to be September. You know, we’ve got the whole rest of the year. There are three 
meetings left in the year. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. And we need a technology for stretching out that review period over 
that longer period of time—rather than 100 percent probability of another rate hike in September. 

MS. DALY. Could you say that? 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. 
MS. DALY. “Over coming meetings”? 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. 
MS. DALY. I mean, I know you can’t say “date based.” Okay. Too date based? 
MR. BULLARD. You can say “future adjustments.” 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Also, “meetings.” 
MR. BARKIN. “Over time.” What if you just added the words “over time”—that we’ll 
“continue to monitor, over time, the implications of incoming information”? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. And knock September off completely? That sends the 
September probability to zero. 
MR. QUARLES. That knocks September completely off. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Yes. 
MR. QUARLES. You want to do that in one move? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. You want to send September to zero? 
CHAIR POWELL. Go ahead, Loretta. 
MS. MESTER. Yes. I hate to get involved in this, because usually last-minute changes 
are not good, but instead of “this action supports the Committee’s,” could you say “with this 
action, the Committee continues to view,” which is basically—is that too far on the one side? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. It’s one and done. 
MS. MESTER. Is it? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. It’s close, but I think that might— 
MS. MESTER. But not if you keep the “continues” and “uncertainties”—maybe not. 

VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Maybe “uncertainties” might balance that. So the 
statement— 
MR. BULLARD. I like something like “over time” or “over coming meetings.” That’s 
what I kind of like, if that’s what you want to do—if you want to spread it out so that we don’t 
put 100 percent probability of a cut in September, which, I think, as I understand it, is the goal. 
CHAIR POWELL. We had many drafts go around with “with this action,” and the issue 
is having it be read as “with this action,” is that it is one and done. And I know that’s what you 
want, right? But— 
MS. MESTER. No, no, no. I wouldn’t— 
CHAIR POWELL. That’s not what I’m trying to achieve. 
MS. MESTER. No, I would never offer language that was only consistent with my— 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. I thought you were nodding to that. 
MS. MESTER. No. I’m trying to work through what you want. 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes, yes. So maybe that’s worth— 
MR. CLARIDA. It just occurs to me as I hear this that one way to move some 
optionality to September is to say, in the last sentence, “The Committee will take time as it 
closely monitors the implications of incoming information.” Then you don’t get into “over 
coming meetings.” You just say we’ll “take time.” 
CHAIR POWELL. That takes September off the table, right? 
MR. QUARLES. I would think so. 
MR. CLARIDA. It reduces the probability—yes. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I actually brought up “with this action” a little while ago 
because I think it does have—when we first thought about “with this action,” it didn’t have the 

“uncertainties,” and it sounded very much like it’s closing off future action. I would write it this 
way: “With this action, the Committee views sustained expansion of economic activity, strong 
labor market conditions, and inflation,”—you know, the symmetric goal—“as the most likely 
outcomes, but uncertainties about this outlook remain.” 
MS. MESTER. That seems balanced. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. It gets the balance there with the “uncertainties.” I think a 
lot of these efforts to use time or temporal words really are going to be read by markets—but, 
Lorie, correct me if I’m wrong—as a strong signal about one meeting or another meeting. If you 
say “over time” or “over meetings,” it’s hard. You’re kind of going into date-based language. 
MS. LOGAN. Yes. And I think the suggestion you just recommended balances the two, 
because it keeps the “uncertainties” but then provides that clarity of this meeting. So I think 
that’s a nice balance from the market’s perspective and in light of what we heard. 
MR. BOSTIC. Could we just put the “uncertainties” part as attached to the next sentence 
so that the uncertainties are linked to our monitoring? So, “With this action, the Committee 
views . . . as the most likely outcomes. But uncertainties remain, so the Committee will continue 
to monitor.” I agree with some of the things that were said earlier—that “but the uncertainties 
remain” being tied— 
CHAIR POWELL. See, that reads like we are one and done, but we’re going to monitor 
these uncertainties—to me. I wanted “uncertainties” to be part of the “one and done” sentence. I 
want it to be— 
MR. QUARLES. Yes. 
CHAIR POWELL. I do. 
MR. BOSTIC. I don’t see it as saying that. 

CHAIR POWELL. No? I mean, “uncertainties” is in the same sentence with this—you 
know. If you move “uncertainties” to the next sentence, it seems to me you’re saying, “We’re 
done here, but we’re going to be monitoring,” as opposed to—and maybe I’m being—Thomas, 
just jump in. 
MR. LAUBACH. Can I offer one suggestion to the final sentence that takes “act” away 
but not “appropriate”? So it would read “The Committee will continue to monitor the 
implications of incoming information for the economic outlook and the appropriate path for 
policy to sustain the expansion, with a strong labor market and inflation near its symmetric 
2 percent objective.” 
MR. KAPLAN. I like that change, too. 
MR. LAUBACH. So the key thing would be to say “implications of incoming 
information for the economic outlook and the appropriate path for policy.” 
CHAIR POWELL. You’re losing “act as appropriate.” Lorie, what do you think? John? 
MS. LOGAN. I think it’s keeping a version of the “as appropriate.” The three things that 
we heard from everyone were some version of “uncertainties,” some version of “closely 
monitor,” and some version of “as appropriate.” So it still maintains an element of those. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Could you say it again? I couldn’t— 
MR. LAUBACH. Okay. “The Committee will continue to monitor the implications of 
incoming information for the economic outlook and the appropriate path for policy to sustain the 
expansion.” 
MR. HARKER. “With the monitoring the appropriate path”? 
MR. LAUBACH. “To monitor the implications of incoming information for the 
economic outlook and the appropriate path.” 

MR. QUARLES. “To sustain the expansion.” So you got that in there. 
CHAIR POWELL. Did we move off of “with this action”? 
MR. KAPLAN. No. 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes. 
MR. KAPLAN. I mean, my own—listening to this, I would keep that “with this action,” 
keep the “uncertainties,” and then take Thomas’s change to both. 
MR. LAUBACH. I mean, the “act as appropriate,” I think, just sounds a little—that’s the 
forward-leaning piece, right? 
MR. KAPLAN. I agree. 
MR. LAUBACH. That’s sitting a little bit—I mean, it feels to me like it’s very close to 
what you try to accomplish by moving from “closely monitor” to “continue to monitor”—
namely, being a little bit less on the edge of the seat. 
MS. BRAINARD. I like Thomas’s suggestion. 
MS. GEORGE. I do, too. 
MR. HARKER. Yes, it’s good. I agree. 
CHAIR POWELL. John? But, I mean, the question I have is, does it go too far? I mean, 
we were trying to do this by changing other stuff and leaving the “holy language” intact. If you 
start messing with the holy language, that’s a different thing. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. The question you’ll be asked is, “Why did you change that? 
Is that telling us something?” 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes. Why would you change that? 
MR. LAUBACH. “Continue to monitor the implications for” this and that, to me, sounds 
like this is a description of what you’re going to do in coming months. Namely, you’re going to 

look at the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook and for the 
appropriate path of policy. So, I mean, I do believe that it sends the signal of, the urgency for 
action has diminished, given the action that you’ve taken today. 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes, I think it does. I definitely think it does. 
MR. LAUBACH. The urgency for further action has diminished, given the action that 
you’ve taken today. 
CHAIR POWELL. I’m concerned it may send it too well. 
MS. DALY. Can I ask—I don’t think you like this, but I wanted to know why. There 
was an original suggestion, or something that came second, that, instead of saying “the 
Committee will continue,” it was “in deciding the future path of policy, the Committee will 
continue.” And that seems a little less problematic than the language that Thomas just 
suggested, in terms of going too far, but I didn’t know why you didn’t like it. I didn’t know what 
discomfort it was going to cause you in the press conference. 
CHAIR POWELL. But that was part of that tag-on clause before this sentence, right? 
MS. DALY. No, I thought it was by itself. It was just the only change. 
CHAIR POWELL. Where are we going to put it? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. At the beginning. 
MS. DALY. Instead of “further adjustments,” we were talking about—I forget what— 
MR. BULLARD. “Future policy path.” 
MR. WILLIAMS. “Potential future path.” 
MS. DALY. Yes, “future policy path.” 
MR. QUARLES. “Policy.” 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. “Contemplating the future path for policy.” 

MR. BULLARD. So, take the original proposal— 
MR. LAUBACH. “As the Committee contemplates the future path.” 
MR. QUARLES. Instead of “adjustments.” 
MS. DALY. Instead of “further adjustments.” 
MR. BULLARD. Instead of “adjustments.” 
MS. DALY. So you came out and said—Trevor, can you reread the first suggestion, I 
think? 
CHAIR POWELL. Is this in lieu of the other five ideas? 
MS. DALY. Yes. This is instead of the other five ideas. And I just wanted to go back to 
why—you didn’t like it originally, but you might like it better now with the other—[Laughter] 
MS. DALY. So, Trevor, can you please read the one you guys came out with? 
MR. REEVE. I’ll read the two versions with the “contemplates” formulation. 
MS. DALY. Okay. Thank you. 
MR. REEVE. “As the Committee contemplates potential future adjustments to the target 
range for the federal funds rate.” That’s the first one. The second is “As the Committee 
contemplates the future path for the federal funds rate, it will continue to monitor.” 
MS. DALY. That was the one I asked— 
CHAIR POWELL. And that’s it. Everything else stays the same. 
MS. DALY. And that’s it. 
MR. QUARLES. Everything else is the same. 
MR. EVANS. What was that last one? 
MR. BULLARD. It’d be very close to what the original proposal was. 
MR. EVANS. Sorry, the last one is what we’re talking about? 

MR. REEVE. It doesn’t have “adjustments”—yes. 
MR. EVANS. Could you say it again? 
MS. DALY. Can you reread the last one? 
MR. REEVE. “As the Committee contemplates the future path for the federal funds 
rate.” 
CHAIR POWELL. Gives me what I need. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. And then it has “act as appropriate” later or “appropriate”— 
MR. QUARLES. Everything else—“act as appropriate.” 
MS. DALY. Everything else is the same. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. And I would leave everything else. 
CHAIR POWELL. I think that works. 
MR. CLARIDA. Yes. 
MS. DALY. I added value. [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Damn, Mary. [Laughter] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. “Future path for the target range”? 
MR. BOSTIC. “Future path for the target range”? 
MR. LAUBACH. Yes—“The future path for the target range of the federal funds rate.” 
MR. CLARIDA. That does it. 
CHAIR POWELL. All right. Read it. Read the whole thing one more time—that 
sentence. 
MR. EVANS. The whole sentence, please. 
MR. REEVE. Okay. “As the Committee contemplates the future path for the target 
range for the federal funds rate, it will continue to monitor the implications of incoming 

information for the economic outlook and will act as appropriate to sustain the expansion, with a 
strong labor market and inflation near its symmetric 2 percent objective.” 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. How many ways— 
CHAIR POWELL. So—great. And we think that is a basis for creating optionality? 
MR. BOSTIC. It’s better. 
MR. HARKER. It’s better. 
CHAIR POWELL. All right. Are we good, then? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. No other changes. 
CHAIR POWELL. All right. Let’s move, then. Let me now ask Jim to make clear what 
the FOMC will vote on. 
MR. QUARLES. Good luck. [Laughter] 
MR. CLOUSE. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Jim. 
MR. CLOUSE. The vote will be on the monetary policy statement as it used to appear on 
page 4 of Trevor’s briefing materials but with the amendments we’ve just discussed to the last 
sentence of paragraph 2. The vote will also encompass the directive to the Desk as it appears in 
the implementation note shown on pages 8 and 9 of Trevor’s briefing materials. 
Chair Powell Yes 
Vice Chair Williams Yes 
Governor Bowman Yes 
Governor Brainard Yes 
President Bullard Yes 
Governor Clarida Yes 
President Evans Yes 
President George No 
President Rosengren No 
Governor Quarles Yes 

CHAIR POWELL. Now we have two sets of related matters under the Board’s 
jurisdiction: corresponding interest rates on reserves and discount rates. May I have a motion 
from a Board member to take the proposed action with respect to the interest rates on reserves as 
set forth in the first paragraph associated with policy alternative B on the second-to-last page of 
Trevor’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. Now may I have a motion from a 
Board member to take the proposed action with respect to the primary credit rate and the rates 
for secondary and seasonal credit as set forth in the second paragraph associated with policy 
alternative B on the second-to-last page of Trevor’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. At this point, I’ll call on Lorie to give a brief 
update to the Committee on the Desk’s operational plan for reinvestments under the new 
directive and the associated Desk statement. Lorie. 
MS. LOGAN.
9 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be referring to the handout on the Desk 
statement regarding reinvestments. In light of the Committee’s decision to conclude the 
reduction in the SOMA portfolio, I’ll briefly describe plans for implementing the new directive 
and communicating the operational details to the public. 
 
9 The materials used by Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 9). 

In accordance with the directive, all principal payments received from Treasury 
securities, agency debt, and agency MBS will be reinvested starting August 1. Specifically, the 
Desk will begin reinvesting all monthly principal payments from Treasury securities held in the 
SOMA portfolio through rollovers at Treasury auctions. This will require only modest 
adjustments to the existing rollover process to reinvest fully coupon securities. In addition, after 
the SOMA acquires Treasury bills through secondary-market purchases, they will also be rolled 
over at auction when they mature. 
The Desk will also begin reinvesting principal payments from agency debt and MBS 
securities up to $20 billion per month in Treasury securities in a manner that roughly matches the 
maturity composition of Treasury securities outstanding. The Desk plans to purchase these 
Treasury securities in the secondary market across 11 sectors of different maturities and security 
types approximately in proportion to the 12-month average of the amount outstanding in each 
sector relative to the total amount outstanding across sectors as measured as of the end of July. 
To execute these purchases, the Desk plans to conduct about 11 operations per month, 
one for each sector, and will generally include securities across the full maturity range of that 
sector. Reflecting the timing of when the Desk receives information on the expected amount of 
agency MBS principal payments for the month, purchases will be scheduled on a mid-month to 
mid-month basis, along lines similar to how we conduct MBS reinvestment purchases today. For 
operational reasons, there may be very slight deviations in the monthly purchase amounts. These 
will not be carried over to future months. However, we will continue to keep the Committee 
informed of these small amounts through the Desk briefing in the appendix. 

Finally, as directed, the Desk will continue to reinvest agency debt and agency MBS 
principal payments in excess of $20 billion per month into agency MBS. And for this, no 
operational changes are needed. 
In terms of communications, recall that the Desk released a statement and frequently 
asked questions after the May FOMC meeting regarding its reinvestment plans. Given the 
Committee’s decision to bring forward the timing of these purchases to August, the Desk will 
release a new statement, a draft of which is in your handout. It has been updated to reflect the 
new directive and provides information on the operational approach to reinvestments, and we 
plan to release this statement along with the updates to relevant frequently asked questions this 
afternoon following the release of the FOMC statement. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d be happy to take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Questions for Lorie? [No response] Seeing none, I thank you. 
Our final agenda item is to confirm that the next meeting will be Tuesday to Wednesday, 
September 17 to 18. That concludes the meeting. As always, a buffet lunch will be served next 
door. Thanks very much, everybody. 
END OF MEETING

===== FOMC MEETING 2019-09-18 =====

Meet
ing of the Federal Open Market Committee 
September 17–18, 2019 
A
 joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board of Governors was held in 
the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on 
Tuesday, September 17, 2019, at 10:15 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, September 18, 2019, 
at 9:00 a.m. 
PR
ESENT: 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
James Bullard 
Richard H. Clarida 
Charles L. Evans 
Esther L. George 
Randal K. Quarles 
Eric Rosengren 
P
atrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Michael Strine, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
T
homas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, and Mary C. Daly, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively 
Jam
es A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Michael Held, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
Thomas Laubach, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
R
ochelle M. Edge, Eric M. Engen, William Wascher, Jonathan L. Willis, and Beth Anne 
Wilson, Associate Economists 
L
orie K. Logan, Manager pro tem, System Open Market Account 
A
nn E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 

E
ric Belsky,1 Director, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors; 
Matthew J. Eichner,2 Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board of Governors; Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
Board of Governors; Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors 
D
aniel M. Covitz, Deputy Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; 
Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of Governors; 
Trevor A. Reeve, Deputy Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
J
on Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
J
oshua Gallin, Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
B
rian M. Doyle, Wendy E. Dunn, Joseph W. Gruber, Ellen E. Meade, and Ivan Vidangos, 
Special Advisers to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
L
inda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
S
haghil Ahmed, Senior Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors 
A
ntulio Bomfim, Jane E. Ihrig, and Edward Nelson, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors; Jeremy B. Rudd, Senior Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics, Board of Governors 
D
avid López-Salido, Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; 
John J. Stevens, Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
A
ndrew Figura and John M. Roberts, Deputy Associate Directors, Division of Research and 
Statistics, Board of Governors; Christopher J. Gust, Deputy Associate Director, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Matteo Iacoviello and Andrea Raffo,2 Deputy 
Associate Directors, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors; Jeffrey D. 
Walker,
3 Deputy Associate Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment 
Systems, Board of Governors 
Z
eynep Senyuz,3 Assistant Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
P
enelope A. Beattie,4 Assistant to the Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
M
artin Bodenstein,2 Section Chief, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors 
1 Attended through the discussion of the review of the monetary policy framework. 
2 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. 
3 Attended the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. 
4 Attended Tuesday’s session only. 

David H. Small,5 Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Hess T. Chung,
2 Group Manager, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Jonathan E. Goldberg, Edward Herbst,
2 and Benjamin K. Johannsen, Principal Economists, 
Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Fabian Winkler,
2 Senior Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Randall A. Williams,
2 Senior Information Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
James Hebden,
2 Senior Technology Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
Achilles Sangster II, Information Management Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
of Governors 
 
Kenneth C. Montgomery, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
 
David Altig,
2 Kartik B. Athreya, Michael Dotsey, Jeffrey Fuhrer,2 Sylvain Leduc, Simon 
Potter,6 and Ellis W. Tallman, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, 
Richmond, Philadelphia, Boston, San Francisco, New York, and Cleveland, respectively 
 
David Andolfatto, Marc Giannoni, Evan F. Koenig,
2 Paula Tkac, and Mark L.J. Wright, 
Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis, Dallas, Dallas, Atlanta, and 
Minneapolis, respectively 
 
Jonas Fisher, Giovanni Olivei, Giorgio Topa, and Patricia Zobel, Vice Presidents, Federal 
Reserve Banks of Chicago, Boston, New York, and New York, respectively 
 
Jonas Arias,
2 Thorsten Drautzburg,2 and Leonardo Melosi,2 Senior Economists, Federal 
Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, and Chicago, respectively 
 
Fernando Duarte,
2 Financial Economist, Federal Reserve Bank of New York
 
 
 
 
5 Attended the discussion of the review of the monetary policy framework through the end of the meeting. 
6 Attended opening remarks for Tuesday session only. 

T
ranscript of the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting on 
September 17–18, 2019 
S
eptember 17 Session 
C
HAIR POWELL. Okay. Good morning, everyone. This meeting, as usual, will be a 
joint meeting of the FOMC and the Board. I need a motion from a Board member to close the 
meeting. 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Before we begin the formal agenda items today, 
we will take a moment to recognize Simon Potter for his many contributions to the Federal 
Reserve and particularly for his work in support of the FOMC during his time as manager of 
the Desk. 
Simon joined the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 1998 after spending eight years 
teaching at UCLA. He rose quickly through the ranks in the research department at the New 
York Fed and was appointed co-head of research in 2010. Not having endured enough 
punishment in that role [laughter], Simon took on the role of manager of the System Open 
Market Account in 2012—a job that entails managing a group with more than 500 people and 
has an extraordinarily wide range of responsibilities, including market and policy analysis, 
coordination with counterparts at other central banks, work for the Treasury in executing fiscal 
agent duties, and a host of very important operational matters. And on top of all that, Simon had 
the daunting task of attempting to answer questions on global financial developments from this 
very audience at every FOMC meeting. 
During his time as manager, Simon dealt with countless issues in overseeing the 
implementation of large-scale asset purchases, the planning for the normalization of interest rates 
in the balance sheet, and the planning and development of the Federal Reserve’s long-run policy 

imp
lementation framework. On the implementation framework, Simon was a driving force in 
the System’s extraordinarily wide-ranging project in 2016 that examined dozens of issues 
associated with policy implementation in a post-crisis world—a project that generated several 
hundred pages of light reading for this Committee [laughter] and that formed the basis for our 
decisions on the implementation framework earlier this year. 
Simon, on behalf of the Committee, I want to thank you for all of your contributions to 
this Committee, to the Federal Reserve, to the global community of central bankers, and to the 
country over the course of your career. We wish you the very best in your future. Thank you 
very much. [Applause] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Mr. Chair, if I could add a few words of my own. You 
covered the ground very well, but—Simon represents the best of the Fed, in terms of analytical 
firepower, in terms of commitment to our mission, in terms of focusing on getting the Committee 
to very good outcomes. 
I would just highlight two things you mentioned. One is the policy normalization project, 
which was a huge undertaking. We now take it as a given that this has run successfully and 
smoothly. But, at the time, there were a lot of known unknowns and unknown unknowns. And 
the success of that is in large part due to Simon’s work with his team. 
And the second is, really, the once-in-a-generation project on the operational framework. 
It’s rare that the Fed contemplates a significant shift—a dramatic shift—in how we conduct 
monetary policy. As the Chair mentioned, that entailed an enormous amount of work and 
collaboration across the System—an enormous number of pages of memos and thought and 
research. And, again, Simon should be given due credit for leading that and helping get us to a 
very good decision. A lot of thought went into the pros and cons on the various issues, and, 

again, I want to thank Simon for all the hard work and all of the accomplishments he made in 
serving this Committee. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Thank you. Thanks again, Simon. Don’t be a stranger. 
MR. POTTER. Thank you. It’s been a real honor and privilege to work with you all. I 
wish you the best of luck. [Laughter and applause] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Before we get started on our formal agenda, I’m going to ask 
Lorie and Patricia if you could please bring us up to date on developments in the past few days 
and today. Thanks. 
MS. LOGAN.
1 Thank you, Chair. I’ll be referring to the “Statement Regarding 
Repurchase Operation.” Money markets were highly volatile yesterday. This 
continued into this morning. Since last Thursday, corporate tax inflows to the TGA 
and midmonth Treasury settlement resulted in reserves declining $110 billion. These 
resulted in deposit outflows from banks and withdrawals from money funds, while at 
the same time Treasury settlement increased dealers’ needs for funding in repo 
markets. 
Amid these pressures, repo rates soared yesterday morning, with a significant 
amount of volume occurring at materially elevated levels. The SOFR “printed” at 
2.43 percent, and the 75th and 99th percentiles of SOFR transactions were at 
2.55 percent and 4.60 percent, respectively. Although elevated repo rates have, in the 
past, induced banks and money funds to increase lending into secured markets, some 
were reportedly less willing to lend even at these very high rates as they anticipated 
potential outflows. 
Pressure in repo markets passed through to unsecured markets. Federal Home 
Loan Banks (FHLBs) experienced higher advance demand from banks and lent more 
in repo, a process that lowered their lending in federal funds. These dynamics 
collectively resulted in the effective federal funds rate “printing” at 2.25 percent, 11 
basis points higher than the day before and at the top of the target range. Moreover, 
the distribution of trades was very wide and highly skewed. The 75th and 99th 
percentiles were 2.45 percent and 3 percent, respectively. 
This morning, money market rates opened at higher levels. Trading in repo 
markets occurred at rates as high as 8 percent, with federal funds trades occurring as 
high as 5 percent. The Desk anticipates that pressure will ease in coming days. 
 
1 The materials used by Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). 

However, trading in markets was significantly elevated and somewhat dislocated this 
morning. 
In accordance with the FOMC Directive issued on July 31, 2019, the Desk 
undertook an overnight repurchase agreement operation in order to help maintain the 
federal funds rate within the target range. The announcement was made at 9:10, and 
the operation was concluded just before this meeting. The operation was conducted 
with primary dealers for an aggregate amount of $53 billion and included Treasury 
securities, agency debt, and agency MBS as eligible collateral. 
After the announcement, repo rates softened to some degree, and are now quoted 
below 3 percent. We will provide a more comprehensive update on conditions in 
money markets at the Desk briefing this afternoon. And we’d be happy to take any 
questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Questions? [No response] Great. Okay. Thanks very much. Let’s 
move to our first agenda item, which is the second installment on our strategic review of the 
monetary policy framework, and we’ll get started with staff briefings from Fernando, Andrea, 
and Ed. Fernando, would you like to begin? 
MR. DUARTE.
2 Thank you, Mr. Chair. As you continue your deliberations 
about the monetary policy framework, it seems natural to analyze how well the 
current framework will perform in the future in light of the effective lower bound 
(ELB), and what changes could be made to mitigate the constraint posed by the ELB. 
The three memos that Andrea, Ed, and I will summarize are, in different ways, 
directed at this goal. 
As outlined in slide 1, under the current framework, the ELB is likely to be a 
constraint for policymakers in the future. Historically, the FOMC has lowered the 
federal funds rate more than 4 percentage points during recessions, but all responses 
to the June SEP indicate that the longer-run normal level of the federal funds rate is 
less than 3½ percent. As a result, it is likely that the ELB will bind in most future 
recessions. A variety of statistical and economic models confirm this result and show 
that ELB episodes are likely accompanied by high unemployment and low inflation. 
Please turn to the slide on page 2. The increased risk that the ELB will bind in the 
future may inhibit the Committee’s ability to achieve inflation outcomes that are 
symmetric around 2 percent and to stabilize the labor market even when the federal 
funds rate is away from the ELB. As summarized in slide 2, one way to reduce this 
“low inflation bias” within the current framework could be to keep the federal funds 
rate during expansions at a level lower than justified in the absence of the ELB. The 
Committee would have to agree on the level justified in the absence of the ELB as 
 
2 The materials used by Messrs. Duarte, Raffo, and Herbst are appended to this transcript (appendix 2). 

well as the appropriate offset from that level. An alternative strategy may be to adjust 
the federal funds rate less aggressively when inflation is above 2 percent than when 
inflation is below 2 percent. 
There are also ways to strengthen the Committee’s use of its current tools at the 
ELB, which are shown in slide 3. First, forward guidance and balance sheet policies 
could be deployed more rapidly and more aggressively than in the past, in view of the 
lack of significant negative side effects and what we have learned about their efficacy 
since 2008. Several models indicate that sooner-and-stronger policies can have 
meaningful quantitative effects on inflation and employment. Second, the Committee 
could announce in advance more details of how the FOMC plans to respond to future 
ELB episodes. The public’s expectations would then be affected before the ELB 
binds, making this tactic an automatic stabilizer. The effectiveness of this idea 
depends on the expectations formation process, a topic that will be discussed more 
fully by Ed in his remarks. Third, forward guidance could be explicit about the 
situations in which the provided guidance will cease to apply. Forward guidance that 
is too firm or covers too long a horizon could put the Committee in a future situation 
in which inflation is above, or projected to be above, 2 percent. The current 
framework would then call for increasing interest rates to reduce inflation, which may 
clash with the form of forward guidance announced earlier. Specifying the situations 
in which the forward guidance will cease to apply may help reduce the possibility of 
such situations. 
The Committee may nevertheless judge that to overcome the constraint posed by 
the ELB, it could be valuable to consider more ambitious forms of forward guidance 
that require commitment and are outside the current framework. Now please turn to 
slide 4. More generally, the Committee may want to consider policy strategies that 
overshoot the FOMC’s objectives, including makeup strategies. The costs and 
benefits of overshooting strategies in a simplified economic model are illustrated in 
the figure on slide 4. Promising to overshoot the FOMC’s objectives after a recession 
can lift inflation and employment during the recession because of higher expected 
future inflation and employment. However, once inflation returns to 2 percent and 
the unemployment rate is near its natural rate, the Committee would have to provide 
the additional policy accommodation that it previously promised. The benefits of 
overshooting, shown in blue in the figure, are front loaded, as they occur during the 
recession. The costs, shown in red, are only realized later, once the recession has 
passed. The public might expect that future Committees may be unwilling to incur 
the costs after having already reaped the benefits, limiting the expansionary effects of 
the overshooting policy during the recession. The incentive to renege on past 
promises is known as the “time-inconsistency problem.” 
Time-inconsistent strategies are likely to be easier to implement when there is 
broad public support. Irrespective of the degree of public support, we highlight four 
tactics, detailed in slide 5, that the FOMC could use to mitigate the time-
inconsistency problem. First, the FOMC could make verifiable promises to which it 
can be held measurably accountable. Reneging on these promises could jeopardize 
the credibility of the Committee’s communications. Second, the FOMC could 

communicate its policy to the public through a variety of channels. Third, the FOMC 
could choose a policy strategy that is in effect during both recessions and expansions, 
offering the public the opportunity to verify policymakers’ commitment to the 
strategy outside periods of economic stress. Fourth, the FOMC could rely on shorter-
term promises that may deliver smaller economic gains than longer-term policies but 
are likely to be more credible. 
Our memo ends by discussing central bank policies in the Czech Republic and 
Japan, whose policymakers have recently attempted to overshoot their inflation 
objectives, summarized in slide 6. Policymakers in the Czech Republic have 
sustainably raised inflation above their 2 percent target using an exchange rate policy. 
Notably, the Czech National Bank published forecasts that implied inflation would 
rise above its 2 percent target over a relatively short horizon. Furthermore, the 
projected overshoot was small. By contrast, in Japan, inflation has remained below 
its objective. The Bank of Japan’s announcement that it intended to overshoot its 
objective was seen as a relatively minor deviation from past policies that had 
produced low inflation for a number of years. 
An important unresolved empirical issue is the extent to which these strategies 
might be able to outperform the current framework in the United States. This issue, 
in part, will be discussed next by Andrea and Ed. 
MS. RAFFO. Thank you. As noted by Fernando, we sensed that only a trilogy 
could satisfy your appetite for reading in these last days of summer. The next two 
books in this saga explore whether the adoption of makeup strategies could better 
serve the Committee in addressing future downturns. 
Compared to the current framework, a makeup strategy would require the FOMC 
to explicitly endorse a principle whereby bygones are no longer bygones and past 
misses in inflation are, at least in part, made up. A potential benefit of such a strategy 
is that, in a recession, this commitment would create expectations that policymakers 
will keep the policy interest rate lower for longer during the subsequent expansion, 
thus supporting aggregate demand and inflation even while the ELB binds. More 
stable inflation, on average, may also lower the sensitivity of inflation to transient 
developments and help anchor inflation expectations. 
As indicated in your next exhibit, in my remarks I focus on the design of an 
average inflation targeting (AIT) in which policymakers continue to respond to 
economic slack but seek to undo past deviations of inflation from its long-run goal 
over a rolling window of fixed length. That said, similar considerations apply to 
other makeup strategies. 
A central aspect of the AIT strategy is the choice of the length of the makeup 
window. As time advances, inflation misses that occurred further in the past 
eventually drop out of the window and become bygones. A longer window will 
generally imply more extended lower-for-longer interest rate paths. This intuition 
comes out in the recession scenario reported at the bottom of the page. We construct 

the baseline recession scenario, in black, in the FRB/US model with negative shocks 
to aggregate demand and inflation. Here, under the inertial Taylor (1999) rule, the 
ELB binds for about three years, the unemployment rate increases to 5½ percent, and 
inflation falls to 1¼ percent. 
We then compare outcomes under the inertial Taylor rule to a four-year AIT rule, 
in yellow, an eight-year AIT rule, in red, and a price-level-targeting rule that can be 
thought of as an AIT rule with an extremely long makeup window, in green. To 
facilitate comparison, we use simple interest rate rules and abstract from additional 
monetary policy stimulus that the Committee would likely provide through asset 
purchases and other tools were such a scenario to materialize. 
This recession scenario highlights three main points. First, makeup rules with 
longer windows call for lower paths of the policy rate, leading to smaller increases in 
the unemployment rate, smaller declines in inflation, and faster returns of inflation to 
target. Second, to convince you of this claim, I probably had to test your eye 
prescription, because some of these lines are very close to each other. This 
observation is largely due to two features of the FRB/US model that limit the 
effectiveness of monetary policy—namely, the low sensitivity of the economy to 
interest rates and of inflation to slack. Higher sensitivity in both dimensions would 
yield quantitatively larger gains, as shown in the memo and often found in academic 
studies. That said, even the ¼ percentage point reduction in peak unemployment 
featured in the scenario corresponds to 430,000 jobs saved, so it is a close call to 
judge if the glass is half full or half empty. Lastly, the low responsiveness of inflation 
to slack embedded in the FRB/US model also implies that AIT rules deliver very 
small inflation overshooting a decade later, as the larger misses that occurred early in 
the recession are thrown, literally, out of the window. In this sense, some of the time-
inconsistency concerns discussed previously are alleviated here. 
Your next exhibit addresses another important aspect of the design of an AIT 
strategy—namely, the symmetric or asymmetric nature of the makeup. This decision 
roughly boils down to policymakers’ willingness to slow the economy because 
inflation averaged above 2 percent in the past. In particular, a symmetric AIT 
strategy may constrain the desire to act promptly at the onset of the recession. 
The panels at the bottom of the exhibit present outcomes in our mild recession 
scenario under a symmetric eight-year AIT rule, in yellow. Here we assume that 
policymakers inherited a positive inflation gap because inflation was, on average, 
nearly 2½ percent in the years before the recession. The red line represents an 
asymmetric eight-year AIT rule that ignores this inflation gap. The most striking 
difference between the two AIT strategies is that the symmetric rule calls for higher 
policy rates early on in the recession to make up for the accumulated inflation gap, 
resulting in higher unemployment rates. Later on, as these past inflation misses drop 
out of the window, the two makeup strategies deliver very similar prescriptions and 
outcomes. 

As discussed in your next exhibit, these strategies will likely require adjustments 
to the Committee’s communications. The effectiveness of a makeup strategy 
critically relies on the public’s understanding of its elements. Consequently, the 
Committee may want to consider explaining details about the makeup measure and its 
evolution to clarify the implications for the stance of policy. Similarly, the public 
may wonder about the relation between current overall inflation developments and 
the evolution of a makeup measure specified in terms of core inflation. As shown in 
the chart, swings in energy and food prices may create persistent deviations between 
these measures. In sum, the realization of the full benefits of these strategies hinges 
on the policymakers’ ability to steer agents’ expectations. But this is the subject of 
your next and final book in our trilogy. 
MR. HERBST. Thanks, Andrea. The materials for the memo “How Robust Are 
the Alternative Strategies to Key Alternative Assumptions” begin on slide 11. The 
memo begins by surveying empirical evidence on the public’s inflation expectations, 
because makeup strategies—such as the strategies that Andrea discussed—are most 
powerful when policymakers can influence these expectations. Measures of long-run 
inflation expectations appear to be well anchored, though there is uncertainty about 
the degree of anchoring and whether any such anchoring will persist into the future 
should inflation drift away from the FOMC’s longer-run inflation objective for a 
sustained period of time. Many studies have documented that short-run inflation 
expectations seem to react to new information more slowly and to a lesser extent than 
would be the case in an economic model under the assumption of “Full Information, 
Rational Expectations,” the paradigm that is used most in model-based studies of 
monetary policy. Slide 11 highlights some empirical estimates in studies that use 
different techniques and data of the responsiveness of inflation expectations to 
incoming information. All estimates indicate substantial underreaction relative to the 
“Full Information, Rational Expectations” benchmark. This evidence is important 
because it suggests that the strength of the expectations channel of a makeup 
strategy—that is, the idea that current inflation will increase simply because of the 
expectations of higher inflation in the future associated with the makeup 
commitment—may be overstated in many macroeconomic models. 
Informed by these empirical findings, the rest of the memo examines how makeup 
strategies—with an emphasis on average inflation targeting, as in the companion 
memo—perform in the FRB/US model under different assumptions about 
expectations formation. Crucially, in the FRB/US model, expectations can be 
separately modified for decisionmakers in different sectors of the economy—for 
example, consumers or financial market participants. Thus, the extent to which the 
entire public understands policymakers’ commitment to a makeup strategy—and the 
degree to which aggregate economic variables react to news about the future—can be 
set from the “bottom up” by adjusting the expectation formation in each sector. 
The memo assesses how makeup strategies perform in the context of large shocks 
that bring the federal funds rate to the ELB using different model simulations to 
highlight key issues surrounding the efficacy of makeup strategies. The results begin 
on slide 12. First, as with the previous memo, we find that, in general, makeup 

strategies moderately increase inflation from low levels while also offsetting some of 
the real effects of adverse economic shocks. This represents an improvement in 
outcomes relative to those under a traditional inflation-targeting regime. Moreover, 
this holds true even when much of the public is uninformed about the monetary 
policy strategy so long as financial market participants—whose views help determine 
key long-term interest rates—understand and believe policymakers’ commitment to 
the strategy. There is an important caveat to this result. If the public is uninformed 
about—or does not believe in or act on—the commitment to a makeup strategy, 
policymakers will be unable to mitigate the initial period of low inflation caused by 
the large shock. Instead, the attempt to meet the target for average inflation requires 
more aggressive policy accommodation, because the diminished strength of the 
expectations channel of inflation renders monetary policy less potent. This 
aggressive accommodation could potentially lead subsequently to a sustained period 
of inflation above the 2 percent objective and a substantial overheating of the 
economy. 
Second, as highlighted on slide 13, it is possible that under a makeup strategy, 
which aims to influence short-run inflation expectations, inflation outcomes over time 
could inadvertently unanchor longer-run inflation expectations if these long-run 
expectations are affected by actual inflation persistently above or below 
policymakers’ objectives. In particular, following through on a commitment to a 
sustained overshoot of the 2 percent inflation objective could lead to an increase in 
long-run inflation expectations and result in a longer period of inflation above 
2 percent than intended. This risk is particularly salient in the case of asymmetric 
strategies, under which policymakers do not react to average inflation above 2 
percent. In assessing the size of this risk, though, it is important to point out that the 
past decade’s experience of low inflation has not led to dramatic changes in long-run 
inflation expectations. 
Third, if the public learns about a new policy strategy only over time, then early 
adoption is important to maximize the effectiveness of the makeup strategy rather 
than waiting for an adverse shock to materialize. This is particularly significant 
because, in the case of a large adverse shock, the federal funds rate is likely to be 
constrained by the ELB, rendering it initially very difficult for the public to 
distinguish between many different policy strategies on the basis of the behavior of 
the level of the federal funds rate alone. In such a setting, a switch to a makeup 
strategy might not lead to an improvement in outcomes, as the public would not 
initially understand or believe policymakers’ commitment to the new strategy. 
Slide 14 highlights a few important caveats related to these conclusions. First, we 
still do not understand a lot about the expectations formation processes, the 
measurement of expectations, and, in particular, the extent to which policymakers can 
influence those expectations. Second, the FRB/US model is only one model of the 
economy, and conclusions about the merits of makeup strategies can differ somewhat 
across models. Third, the specific dimensions of robustness analyzed in our memo do 
not capture all the potential situations that policymakers may face. 

Thank you. This concludes our prepared remarks. We would be happy to answer 
any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Questions for the briefers? President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I have two questions. The first one is just a clarification question. On page 
8—and you’re using the FRB/US model—you say that it depends entirely on the sensitivity of 
the economyto interest rates, and the response of inflation to economic slack. When you’re 
thinking about the FRB/US model calibration, is it using the old Phillips curve or the new, flatter 
one that we have? What’s the sensitivity you have in the model? 
MR. RAFFO. So the coefficient in FRB/US—the response of inflation to slack—is 0.1, 
which is the most recent estimate. 
MS. DALY. Okay. I just wanted to understand the pictures we were looking at. My 
other question is more of a discussion question. When you’re thinking about AIT, it’s always, 
even with a short window—let’s say, three years—it’s just backward looking. Have you ever 
run a model—or do people think of it as, you have two years of looking backward and one year 
of looking forward, or some similar approach in which—you were centering the window. And 
the reason is, it seems to get us out of this concern that if we hit a recession, then we have to be 
making up. Well, if you hit a recession, you’d see that inflation pressures go down, and if you 
had this looking-forward and looking-back averaging, it wouldn’t be so costly. Have we ever 
thought about that? Have you run models with this “mixed” strategy? 
MR. RAFFO. We discussed some of those variations, but we ended up featuring in the 
memo only backward-looking formulations of the average inflation target. 
MS. DALY. I may be the only one, but I would be interested to see some additional 
work in which we get simulations to see what happens when you examine such mixed 

strategies—if you just look at the recent history, what would happen if you had this “mixed” 
strategy, centering the window a bit more? 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I have a question on slide 11. I thought it was very 
interesting. Of course, it was covered in the memo. And I guess my question is—I’m leading 
the witness here—this literature has really been looking at how agents form their expectations in 
the historical sample relative to the rational expectations benchmark. And there’s been a lot of 
really good research here, which I think is very nicely summarized. 
The question, however, that I think the Committee is contemplating is not just how 
inflation expectations are formed in the current regime, but in a shift in the regime. So if you 
shift from, say—I’m just going to take the largest move, from inflation targeting to price-level 
targeting—presumably, with experience and over time, people would start forming their 
expectations differently in that regime than they did before. 
I think Larry Ball—and I’m going way back now—did some work on looking at how 
inflation expectations were formed during the period of the gold standard, which is kind of like a 
price-level-targeting regime or shares similarities with that, versus the post–World War II period, 
when inflation had a lot of persistence. 
So I guess my question to the group is, I take this evidence as given, and it is very 
informative, but does that really help us think about, if we were to change regimes to something 
like makeup strategies or average inflation targeting or one of these others, over time, wouldn’t 
inflation expectations change with that change in regime? 
MR. HERBST. I think a switch to a price-level-targeting regime would, to me, represent 
a pretty big shock, and I want to be upfront that most of these studies are talking about small 

pieces of information. I do think it’s sort of consistent with what we’ve shown here. If you read 
this literally, people do eventually figure out what’s going on, it’s just that they’re not as 
sophisticated as the rational expectations assumption that is often viewed as the benchmark 
standard for analysis in the literature So I wouldn’t want our memo to be read such that no one 
will be able to figure out anything over time. 
MR. LAUBACH. If I can add one point. I think we have evidence that suggests the 
updating of longer-run inflation expectations changed from the Great Inflation period to more 
recently. We also observe that longer-run inflation expectations remained remarkably stable in 
the face of very large fluctuations in resource utilization following the Great Recession. And 
that makes me wonder whether there is something like a rational inattention mechanism going 
on—namely, that as long as inflation remains low and somewhere around 2 percent, people will 
not take a whole lot of signal from any change in the FOMC’s regime but will rather say, “Well, 
basically this is still not a problem to which I will devote a lot of resources.” It’s a possibility. 
We don’t know that. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Just as a follow-up—as a macroeconomist, I’m loath to 
bring this up. But the Lucas critique is right here: if you change the policy regime, you 
presumably change how people form expectations. And your example, Thomas, was exactly the 
one I was thinking of: As our predecessors courageously brought inflation down in the ’80s and 
’90s and got us to this stable inflation world, we’ve seen a significant change in how people form 
expectations, in terms of both long-run inflation expectations and the whole discussion about the 
flatter Phillips curve and all that. So I think we shouldn’t take as given that the people won’t 
shift their behavior if we change our approach. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Rosengren. 

MR. ROSENGREN. When I looked at the simulations, I was struck by the magnitudes 
being relatively small. So I’m wondering whether the staff found it surprising how small the 
magnitudes were. If you think over the course of this year, in the spring, we had core PCE 
inflation at 1.6 percent. If we’re right in the Tealbook, we’ll be at 1.8 percent at the end of the 
year—that’s 0.2 percent. We haven’t done a huge amount to generate the difference between 1.6 
and 1.8. So when you look at one-tenth or two-tenths going through this entire framework 
change, does the magnitude surprise you? Is it model specific? So tell us a little bit more about 
the magnitudes. And then, if the magnitudes are really only one- or two-tenths, explaining to the 
public why we’re completely changing our framework for one- or two-tenths, given that that’s 
well within the standard error of forecasting of PCE inflation, makes it kind of hard to justify 
trying—I mean, it’s somewhat complicated. None of these charts are that easy for a non-
economist, so how much of informing the public do we want to do for one- or two-tenths? 
MR. RAFFO. I will offer a couple of considerations. First, one point we tried to make 
explicit in the memo is that there are structural features of the economy that obviously affect how 
big of a stabilization gain policymakers would gain from switching to a makeup strategy. In this 
case, we are showing results from the FRB/US model, which has a very flat Phillips curve, as we 
were discussing before. It also has a pretty low sensitivity of aggregate demand to the interest 
rate. And we thought that it was a good insight to provide—that, under these assumptions, you 
might end up having quantitative gains that are not very large. That said, we also run similar 
simulations in the other models, and we show that the gains can actually become, in terms of 
magnitude, larger. 
The second observation that I would offer is that one question we faced was, what is the 
benchmark against which we want to compare these results? We started off from an inertial 

Taylor rule, but, arguably, the inertial Taylor rule already includes a makeup component 
because, through the lag in the interest rate, essentially, the policy rate responds as if it has an 
implicit makeup component. So that was the best we could do to approximate a baseline, but it 
affects the magnitude of some of these gains. 
Last but not least, in our simulations, a result that comes out clearly is that once the 
economy hits the ELB, the distribution of inflation outcomes actually shifts upward under 
makeup strategies. So, in some sense, at exactly the points when the economy hits the ELB, we 
are going to experience periods of low inflation, and those are going to be moments when the 
Committee might wonder about inflation expectations or possibly the de-anchoring of inflation 
expectations. 
So these makeup strategies conditioned on being at the ELB will actually provide more 
support to inflation. From a risk-management perspective, at the margin, these strategies might 
help keep long-run inflation expectations better anchored, which is one of the points that we tried 
to emphasize. To the extent that the performance of inflation improves in terms of being closer 
to 2 percent, on average, there might be a benefit, in terms of keeping inflation expectations 
anchored. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. A combination of an observation and a 
question on slide 8. I’m going to pick up on something that President Rosengren mentioned. I 
was struck as well, if you tune out the PLT line—showing something about my preference 
function—and you look at the AIT lines, it’s striking. Two things. First, how similar they are. 
Second, even with the presumed theoretical benefits of AIT, how long it takes to get to 2 percent 

inflation. It takes, whatever, 10 years to get there under the benchmark, and it takes 9 years to 
get there under the AITs, and so I think there’s that dimension. 
The other thing, of course, which works the other way—it’s more of a presentational 
thing. You did this exactly the right way. You show the shock jumping off from the initial core 
PCE inflation of 1.8 percent. Part of why it takes so long to get to 2 percent is, we were already 
starting off below 2 percent. If you look at how long it took to get back from where it started, 
it’s a little bit more of a favorable comparison. But, again, in our model, what the effects are is 
striking relative to the benchmark. 
On slide 12, a similar comment here on both good news and bad news. The good news is 
that if financial markets or wage and price setters or both figured this out quickly, then you get 
results similar to the full rational expectations. But in what I consider to be probably not the 
fully plausible case, but maybe closer to reality than perhaps some on the staff do, if you have a 
case of a substantial backward-looking component—I see Jeff Fuhrer nodding over there—then 
there is a pretty substantial difference, both in terms of the time dimension and, in particular, the 
overshooting dynamics. And I know that in our previous meetings we’ve talked about 
robustness. The sort of thing I think about is that anything that relies on expectations, if you’ve 
got a substantial backward component, illustrates, probably in an extreme form, some of the 
costs of that. Anyway, very well done, thank you. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. Sorry, do you want to respond? 
MR. RAFFO. I would just add the observation that we decided to go with a mild 
recession scenario, hence the PLT doesn’t come out as particularly different. But if one were to 
simulate a more severe scenario, at that point the PLT would be different from the standard AIT, 

with the AIT window exactly—because at that point the severity of the recession would be 
deeper and inflation would fall even more. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I thought the last two interventions by President 
Rosengren and Governor Clarida were terrific, because they crystalized a couple of things. I had 
the same kind of reaction that Eric did looking at the small numbers, one- or two-tenths. Every 
time I look at loss calculations, things always seem to be kind of small. 
Now, the Fed Listens conferences, I think, have been really nice, and they challenge us to 
think a little bit differently than economists. I’m reminded of a famous study I read, maybe in 
graduate school, by Bob Lucas on the topic of the cost of business cycles. And he did a little 
simple calculation, and he said, “You know, how costly is it to have a recession? And what 
would you pay in order to smooth this out?” And the answer he got wasn’t that different from a 
nickel—really small—because consumption is already smooth. Output varies, but consumption, 
complete markets, and things like that—and a lot of work has been done since then to improve 
those calculations and make them more meaningful. But there’s a lot of economic analysis that 
reminds us that if we’ve got a lot of insurance markets and things like that, a lot of people aren’t 
hurt that much—one-tenth here, two-tenths there. 
Now, looking with my own eyes at, for instance, page 12, I more quickly gravitate to the 
charts in which inflation went above 2 percent, because we’re so challenged to do that. In fact, 
the one that actually got us there as quickly as any of them was the completely uninformed—I 
mean, it started off slower, but then all of a sudden it really took off or something. And I guess I 
wonder: If you ask the public to look at this, what type of preference ordering would they have 
for outcomes like that? What might they gravitate toward? That’s coming back to the Fed 

Listens kind of comment. Because as economists and analysts and looking at loss functions, I 
say, “Yes, maybe it’s not worth doing this. It doesn’t seem like there’s a lot of difference.” On 
the other hand, some of these trajectories might not really take hold unless we do something very 
different. And that’s the “takeaway” that I had from that. 
As a question, does anybody actually have a study of how the public might view 
scenarios like this differently than just calculating loss functions? That would be more 
behavioral, I would guess. 
MR. LAUBACH. If I can offer one thought: I’m looking not so much at slide 12, which 
basically says, according to what you just said, that it would be helpful if the public formed 
vector autoregressive expectations—because, then, you get the better picture. But if you look at 
page 8—for example, the curve on the price-level-targeting strategy—what you do see is not 
only the inflation path, but also the lower unemployment rate path. Now, our loss functions 
mechanically penalize that. I mean, they don’t like these undershoots. But that’s, in some sense, 
because we have this natural-rate assumption, and we say that it’s not a good thing to be away 
from the natural rate on either side. 
If you took a different view on that, then obviously you would say, well, maybe—I’m 
integrating here by eyeballing it—on average, over the cycle here, the unemployment rate path, 
for example, is more centered on the natural rate under the price-level-targeting strategy than 
under the other ones. I mean, the baseline certainly looks to me like the loss during the recession 
is much higher than the subsequent undershoot. 
MR. EVANS. Yes. My preference ordering was different from Governor Clarida’s 
apparently, too, because I think he didn’t like the PLT line. Just to clarify: It’s not my intention 
to disparage the economic analysis, which is good. You’ve got rules of the game. You calculate 

the losses and all of that. It’s just trying to broaden the perspective and wonder, in terms of other 
valuations, how it might be perceived, what might be a different ordering. Thank you very 
much. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Could I just follow up on Charlie’s observation? Because I had the 
exact opposite reaction to that same line. And the reason is, when I look on page 12 at the green 
line for the completely uninformed, it has the advantage that it overshoots on inflation, but it 
requires us, in a relatively modest recession, to hold interest rates at zero for, it looks like, seven 
years. So a promise to keep interest rates at zero for seven years, with no financial-stability 
risks. I understand the model here doesn’t have financial-stability risks. But promising people 
that they have seven years in which they can take as much leverage as they want strikes me as a 
risky strategy. 
So when you think about low-for-long of this magnitude, when we’re talking seven years, 
does it worry you that you don’t have financial stability modeled in the equations that you have? 
The way this is working, the only cost is between inflation and unemployment. But in the real 
world, people are going to go crazy with—or at least, potentially, people are going to take 
advantage of the fact that you’re promising to keep rates low for so long that somebody who is 
informed is going to say, “This is a great opportunity to get as levered as I possibly can.” Any 
reaction to that? 
MR. BARKIN. I think that’s a leading question, in case you were wondering. 
[Laughter] 
MR. RAFFO. We discussed to what extent we could feature simulations to address 
exactly the concern that you raised. And then we concluded that, number one, in the current 
model it would have been difficult to actually model financial stability risk. Number two, we 

thought that those kinds of risk-management considerations probably would be better addressed 
in a subsequent memo. And, number three, I will offer a few insights that came out of our 
discussion. The tradeoff here is essentially between some financial imbalances that might 
emerge because of low-for-long, and some very bad market economic outcomes that might 
materialize if not enough monetary stimulus is provided at the ELB. For example, we already 
have to tweak the model a little bit to avoid deflationary spirals, which would be, obviously, a 
very bad macroeconomic outcome. So balancing those two risks, we felt, was difficult in the 
current environment, but, obviously, it’s a very important consideration. 
The other comment I would add is, for simplicity, we decided to model monetary policy 
with simple interest rate rules. So there is no role for balance sheet policies, and there is no role 
for market prudential tools, and there is no role for all the sorts of tools that the Committee could 
actually deploy in many of those circumstances. We felt that it was important at this juncture to 
provide a little bit of insight inside the mechanics of how these makeup strategies work and a 
preliminary assessment about the quantitative gains or losses that might emerge because of 
adopting a certain strategy or another. 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes, President Barkin. Oh, you’re good—all right. Other questions? 
President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. I’d like to weigh in on these charts on page 8, which purport to 
show that effects are small. I guess my main comment would be that the idea that the effects are 
small is more about the model than it is about reality. I think this type of model is not going to 
tell you very much, other than that price-level targeting is a better policy than something that’s 
suboptimal and away from price-level targeting. So there would be gains to be had. 

One thing I would say about the FRB/US model is: It way over-informs the judgment 
around the Committee here. I mean, what are we doing to validate this model? Why should we 
even be looking at these charts, as opposed to some other charts that are coming from some other 
model? So that’s one thing. 
One way you can see this, though, is that for this exercise, you should insist that the 
model could explain the Japanese data and the European data and then come back and say what 
it’s going to say about adopting price-level targeting in the United States. And I doubt that the 
model has much of an explanation—not that any of us do—for 20 years at the zero lower bound, 
because what you’re really worried about here, in my view, is that you get stuck in this bad 
situation and you never come out of it. 
In this framework with this model, one might say, “Oh, the zero lower bound—oh, yes, 
we stay there for a year and a half, according to this picture here, and then you bounce off, and 
all is well.” That doesn’t seem to be the thing that’s causing the framework review in the first 
place. So, from the staff perspective, they have to choose something to do—you know, 
something simple that can be presented. But I don’t think it should overly inform the judgment 
of the Committee on this topic. 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay, thanks very much. Let’s begin our go-round, and we’ll begin 
with Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you very much, Chair Powell, and a special thank you to the 
staff and the steering committee for three excellent memos. They are densely packed with 
substance and insight, and I think they will provide us with a good foundation on which to build 
discussions of potential changes to our framework in this and coming meetings. 

As we’ve said from the start, this framework review is ambitious in its scope—a scope 
that covers possible changes to strategy, the toolkit, and communication. Today’s briefing 
concludes the scheduled memos on alternative frameworks, and we have briefings scheduled in 
October on additions to the toolkit and in December on “takeaways” from the Fed Listens events. 
At each of these FOMC meetings, we will allocate some time, as we did in July and today, to 
general discussion of the framework as well as to the specific memos presented at the meetings. 
Now, the goals of these general discussions will be, in part, to begin to identify areas of 
potential agreement on how our consensus statement might be refined and improved. I went 
back and reread the transcript of our July meeting. If you have not done so, it will take you 
about 15 minutes, and it’s well worthwhile. In the eight meetings that I have attended in my time 
as a Governor, I have found it incredibly helpful to hear the insightful thinking of each of you as 
well as the way we interacted with one another. 
For example, as we discussed last time, as we think about the consensus statement—and 
there was a lot of commentary around the table. I’ll identify several areas. First, the statement, I 
think to many of us, is imprecise on how it defines our symmetric inflation objective—how it is 
to be interpreted—and on whether or not it constrains the Committee to treat 2 percent inflation 
as a ceiling. The existing statement is also silent on the ELB and its implications for policy as 
well as potential implications for inflation expectations. The statement’s existing discussion of 
maximum employment and u* does not align well with how we decide on policy in a world with 
both below-target inflation and well-below-u* unemployment. And so, at least for me, I take it 
from our July go-round that these elements of the consensus statement appear to be worthy of 
our time and attention even if, in the end, we decide to retain our existing framework. 

Now, with regard to our existing framework, the consensus statement is imprecise as to 
the time dimension over which the price-stability objective is to be achieved and the definition of 
“success” in achieving it. For example, if you look at the communication of other central banks 
around the world, one could imagine a statement that would define “success” in price stability, 
say, over a business cycle or on average over a cycle or within a specified range on average. 
There are a lot of combinations, but other central banks do provide more insight on time 
dimension and success than we do. 
Obviously, any decision that we might make along these lines is enormously 
consequential. And as Chair Powell indicated at the July meeting, our priority should be on 
getting this right and not on rushing to meet an artificial deadline of January 2020. Indeed, in all 
of our public comments on the review, we’ve emphasized the first half of 2020 as the likely time 
frame in which the review will be concluded. To remind you: The plan as we laid it out in July 
is to have staff briefings and framework go-rounds at each remaining FOMC meeting this year. 
Importantly, as we pivot later this fall from staff briefings and general discussion to a 
more focused assessment and debate of specific options for the statement and our strategy, we 
will be briefed, with memos available in advance, by the framework review steering committee 
chaired by Thomas Laubach on specific options and alternatives we should consider and debate. 
The steering committee will be charged with identifying a range of options for changes in the 
statement, as well as more fundamental changes to our strategy and possible additions to the 
toolkit that are consistent with the briefings and the discussions that we’ve had in FOMC 
meetings so far and in future meetings. 
If, as I expect, we believe at the December FOMC meeting that these discussions will 
carry into 2020, the minutes of the December meeting can convey that the framework review is 

ongoing, and that the Committee expects to finalize the review and report sometime in the first 
half of 2020. 
Now, in terms of ultimate deliverables, the most important one is any revision to a 
refinement of the consensus statement. Of course, if we do adopt a new strategy to replace 
flexible inflation targeting, then of course the Committee will need to agree on and then release 
an in-depth addendum, or perhaps a white paper or white papers, that would outline how we 
expect the new strategy to operate and what benefits we expect it to deliver over our current 
strategy. This addendum would also be a natural vehicle for any discussion and analysis of any 
new tools that we decide to add to our toolkit. One thing that I heard last time, and you’ll see in 
the transcript, is a general sense to keep the consensus statement as a broad statement and not get 
into too much detail on particular tools and details, and I think that’s served us well. 
In terms of communication, the subcommittee is well advanced on developing a set of 
recommendations to the FOMC for improving the SEP, the presentation of the minutes, and the 
potential format of the policy decision statement. The subcommittee plans to reserve time at a 
future meeting to present these recommendations to the Committee so that we can have a full 
discussion on whether some of them should be adopted. 
A statement on these changes to the SEP—of course, once agreed upon—would be 
prepared and released to the public at the same time that we make any other announcements 
about the framework review. So I thought I would allocate my time to the sort of roadmap for 
the process. Thank you very much, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Governor Clarida. I appreciate 
your insightful comments. I want to thank the staff for an excellent set of analyses that will help 

inform our framework discussions. The memos clearly show that the effective lower bound 
poses a key threat to our dual-mandate goals. The memos are also chock full of useful technical 
analyses that are important for assessing the potential relative performance of various policies. 
My research background makes me appreciate many of the details in the memos, but the analyses 
seem focused more on executing particular tactical policy options than about picking a good 
overarching strategic approach to U.S. monetary policy to take over the next decade. And for 
me, the best approach should be built upon a strong commitment to pursue outcome-based 
policies that are clearly aimed at achieving our dual-mandate objectives. 
Let’s start with our current framework. The memos, both this round and in July, stated 
that the current framework doesn’t allow for any kind of makeup strategy. That’s a pretty big 
handicap to put out there. Given that assumption, the memos make it clear that our current 
framework will deliver average inflation below 2 percent. This means that, over time, our 
inflation goal will increasingly be viewed as a ceiling of 2 percent. For good reason, we rejected 
the ceiling interpretation of our price-stability objective when we developed our current 
framework. Instead, we embraced symmetry, indicating in our long-run strategy statement that 
we would be concerned if inflation were running persistently above or below 2 percent. But we 
already face a widespread perception that 2 percent is essentially a ceiling. 
For example, former Chair Bernanke, in a very nice paper with Mike Kiley and John 
Roberts, describes one makeup strategy that they study as having “good attributes,” because it 
limits inflation overshooting. For me, pejorative comments about overshooting reinforce the 
public’s perception that monetary policymakers will react with strong displeasure whenever 
inflation actually rises above 2 percent. And I thought the figure, on page 4 of the handout, that 

had overshooting characterized as the cost of overshooting when the undershoot was twice as 
large as the overshoot was another example of that. 
It’s particularly troubling whenever any of our own communications encourage the 
public to view “overshooting” as a dirty word. This language challenges the public’s 
understanding of inflation symmetry and is damaging to our monetary policy objectives. We 
lived through such a damaging experience from 2011 through 2015. Our communications and 
actions repeatedly reinforced the public’s perception that we would lift off prematurely, to avoid 
an inflation overshoot. As a result, we ended up having to take more and more action to support 
the recovery—progressively stronger quantitative easing and forward guidance, well beyond 
what many had envisioned when we started the journey. And this was likely more than would 
have been necessary had we successfully defended symmetry from the outset. In the end, the 
initial failures were very real and very costly. 
So when it comes to strategy, I continue to favor a simple but powerful full-throated 
commitment to follow outcome-based monetary policies aimed at achieving maximum 
employment and symmetric 2 percent inflation within a reasonable amount of time. I subscribe 
to the view that, when necessary, such a framework would prescribe overshooting our 2 percent 
inflation objective with momentum, like the path I discussed at our July meeting with the 
handout chart. And I don’t see this as much of a stretch because, in contrast to the presumption 
in the staff memos, I think this tactic is compatible with our current framework under an 
appropriate view of symmetry. 
Our Committee’s interpretation of symmetry cannot ignore long periods of inflation 
running too low. So, for me, symmetry in our current framework means paying attention to both 
past and prospective inflation undershoots to ensure that inflation averages 2 percent over the 

long haul. This interpretation can be made operational, it is outcome oriented, and its forward-
looking element allows for the flexibility needed to address an array of economic circumstances. 
One could view this concept of symmetry as having some of the flavor of an ex-ante bias-
reduction framework, such as in the Mertens-Williams model, or the perspective that’s been 
written about by business economists like Ethan Harris at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. And 
he spoke up and mentioned, during the Fed Listens conference, breaking up the economic cycle 
into two pieces. During the first part, when inflation is undershooting for a time, you want to 
work really hard to get it up. And then, over the second part, which is a little unknown but 
lengthy, you want it to be above 2 percent. So you actually average 2 percent and it’s well 
known. 
Today, our job is complicated by a world in which r* is perilously low; in which fiscal 
authorities are likely to do less, not more, during a crisis; and in which global cooperation 
appears to be falling, not rising. A fundamental lesson that I have learned from my experience 
on this Committee is that, in such a world, we have to be relentlessly focused on our symmetric 
2 percent objective throughout the cycle. We have to have a do-whatever-it-takes attitude 
toward policy all the time—in a downturn when we are constrained by the ELB and in an 
expansion if inflation remains stubbornly below our objective. I also recognize and accept that 
monetary policy will never be a panacea. But when it comes to price stability, it’s the monetary 
authority alone that has the sole responsibility for achieving our inflation objective. For us, this 
is symmetric 2 percent inflation. We must always keep that in focus. Persistently underrunning 
2 percent inflation is dangerous. 
When it comes to evaluating alternative policy proposals, the staff’s model analyses have 
been very helpful for understanding the factors determining the various options and success as 

well as suggesting potential orders of magnitude for the policy’s effects. The work on robustness 
was particularly useful, with its emphasis on how households, firms, and financial markets 
understand tactical policy details and expect them to be implemented. But my “takeaway” from 
the memos and other work in this area is that there is little chance that any particular monetary 
policy rule will be robust to all of the changes in the economic environment that inevitably 
will occur. 
In contrast, one thing that can assuredly remain constant throughout is a commitment by 
this Committee to act in order to achieve our policy-mandated goals and to critically gauge our 
progress and setbacks at every step along the way. So I think a robust, efficient, and effective 
monetary policy strategy is to communicate relentlessly, today and in the future, that we will use 
the policy tools best suited for the times to achieve maximum employment and price stability. 
The tactics likely will vary with the particular economic circumstances we face, 
particularly at the effective lower bound. At times, the best tactic might mean a state-contingent 
policy that commits to not moving the funds rate up until certain criteria are met, like in some 
makeup rules. At other times, it might mean open-ended large-scale asset purchases. 
There certainly will be challenges to executing such policies. For example, can we 
adequately communicate a lower-for-longer state-contingent funds rate rule via some complex 
formula? Will the public view as credible our commitment to purchasing assets when we say we 
are not concerned over the size of our balance sheet? Is seven years with the funds rate at zero in 
order to get inflation up too risky, in terms of financial-instability risk? People will be asking 
those questions. Meeting these challenges will be difficult. To do so, it will be critical to keep 
our communications squarely focused on our dual-mandate objectives and on assessing our 
performance in achieving those outcomes and also in using our regulatory and supervisory tools. 

I assume that Vice Chair Quarles is going to be on the job to make sure that those overleveraged 
banks aren’t going to be doing what they shouldn’t be. You know, those policies need to be paid 
attention to. 
The case for outcome-based policy without explicit rules may sound overly discretionary 
and time inconsistent. So let me finish with this. Any complete characterization of our 
framework’s strategy should include the thought that the Committee has a strong commitment to 
relentlessly communicate that we are committed to following outcome-based monetary policy. 
If we communicate this, and if we appropriately frame the outcomes within our mandated 
objectives, I will not worry that future Committees will “walk back” from those objectives. The 
clear focus on the outcomes we seek will reinforce the sturdiness of these so-called time-
inconsistent actions. The public will understand that the reason the specific tactics change 
from episode to episode is so that we can best achieve our mandated policy goals. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the staff for the excellent 
analysis in the memos. A great deal has been said, probably more than can adequately be 
commented on in these remarks. I do agree that the effective lower bound is likely to continue to 
be an important issue for the Committee. The effectiveness of a business cycle stabilization 
policy is compromised at the effective lower bound. This can leave the economy more exposed 
to macroeconomic shocks than it otherwise would be. 
Unconventional monetary policies, which may be applied at the effective lower bound, 
can have important effects on the macroeconomy but are not well understood at the theoretical or 
empirical levels. Accordingly, the key medium-term challenge for the FOMC is to avoid a 

prolonged encounter with the effective lower bound. This admonition—“Stay away from the 
effective lower bound”—carries with it a certain electricity when we consider the empirical 
evidence staring us in the face. Japan, one of the largest and most sophisticated economies in the 
world, has not had a policy rate above 50 basis points for decades and has not been able to 
achieve a 2 percent inflation target despite aggressive, unconventional monetary policy. The 
euro area, also large and sophisticated, has experienced monetary policy pinned down at the 
effective lower bound for a decade and now appears set, as indicated by a new round of 
unconventional monetary policy actions, to remain at the ELB over the medium term. These 
economies—drivers of the global economy—will apparently be more exposed to macroeconomic 
shocks in the years ahead because their ability to pursue business cycle stabilization policy has 
been greatly compromised. 
The timelines here—decades for the BOJ and what looks like a decade and a half for the 
ECB—suggest that the ELB is more than a mere temporary inconvenience as it is portrayed in 
the staff memos. Instead, the ELB appears to have more permanent features—a sort of black 
hole of modern central banking from which it is difficult to escape. Accordingly, the 
consequences of getting stuck in such a situation are much more severe than supposed in the staff 
analysis. Such an interpretation would be more consistent with the research of Benhabib, 
Schmitt-Grohé, and Uribe, which identified the ELB with a steady-state outcome of modern 
macroeconomic models. In the Benhabib and others interpretation, lower-for-longer once at the 
ELB may only serve to reinforce the steady state and keep the economy in the bad equilibrium. 
Given these considerations, I think it may be wise to focus attention on strengthening the 
Committee’s framework away from the ELB as opposed to at the ELB, as the best outcome that 
will likely be achieved if a future encounter with the effective lower bound can be avoided 

altogether. And strengthening the framework away from the ELB means only one thing—policy 
has to lean more toward the “dovish” end of the spectrum than it otherwise would to avoid the 
risk of becoming enmeshed in the quagmire with which our Japanese and European friends are 
struggling. 
The memos make clear that there are many approaches that could be used, but, generally 
speaking, one could assume an r* at or below the lower end of available estimates, pledge to 
defend the inflation target from the low side especially aggressively, and allow calculated 
overshoots of the inflation target in the name of actually achieving the inflation target, on 
average, over the medium term. Another option is to treat the 2 percent inflation target more as a 
floor instead of as a ceiling in order to stay away from the ELB. We could state our target as 
above but close to 2 percent, in a mirror image of the ECB’s language. I do not necessarily see 
any of these as viable options once the ELB is encountered. Instead, I see them as changes to 
attitudes and rhetoric of this Committee before the next encounter with the effective lower 
bound, and we hopefully avoid said encounter entirely. 
Time consistency is, of course, a first-order issue. I do think it takes time to build 
credibility for policies that have not been commonly employed in the past. However, I also want 
to point out that it can be done, and has been done, by this Committee over the years. In the 
beginning of the Volcker era, inflation was running at double-digit levels, and a leading theory 
developed by Kydland and Prescott as well as Barro and Gordon suggested that the desired low-
inflation outcome was time inconsistent, so it would be difficult or impossible for the Committee 
to achieve. Essentially, the private sector would understand the Committee’s incentives to 
renege on past promises to keep inflation low, so the theory went, and, therefore, the private 
sector would continue to expect high inflation, and actual inflation would therefore remain high. 

That theory was blown out of the water during the ’80s and ’90s as the FOMC and other central 
banks gradually built up credibility for low and stable inflation outcomes. 
The point of telling the story is that credibility can be achieved over time, and time-
consistency problems can be, and have been, circumvented. The desire to build credibility over 
time suggests that the Committee should take seriously the learning analysis in the memos. We 
should make changes, understanding that it will take time to establish full credibility for the new 
framework. There’s essentially no reason for the private sector to believe, based only on 
announcements, that Committee behavior well entrenched from past actions has suddenly 
changed. Instead, private-sector expectations will likely change only gradually as the Committee 
behaves somewhat differently at certain junctures than it has in the past. 
Finally, and relatedly, I think any pending framework change should be a matter of 
evolution and not revolution. Any elaborate announcement of something like price-level 
targeting or nominal GDP targeting could easily fall flat, as the new policy may lack sufficient 
credibility to change private-sector expectations appropriately. In that case, it may be that 
nothing changes, the attempted framework update would have no effect at all, and, worse, 
subsequent attempts to make changes would be all that much more difficult. Better to make 
modest changes that can be backed up with clear actions in order to push expectations in the 
right direction, given our policy objectives. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. My own views are similar to Governor 
Clarida’s on some of the benefits of a through-the-cycle time dimension for our inflation target, 
and I agree that that implies accepting overshooting, as President Evans has emphasized. 

After reading the three memos, I was less convinced that rigid makeup strategies would 
provide benefits that clearly exceed the cost, for the following reasons. First, I do not find rigid 
makeup strategies or rules that may require promises that extend over long periods as attractive 
for the reasons highlighted in the memos. Committing future policymakers to decisions taken by 
previous policymakers may not be particularly enforceable and, hence, credible. If such 
promises are not believed, they will not likely have the desired effect on expectations and 
economic outcomes. Under current law, I cannot readily think of a commitment device that 
would enforce such a promise, and I’m not sure we would want to use one if it were available. 
Central banks should not make promises they cannot, or will not, keep. 
Second, once constrained to relatively short-term time frames, the benefits in the memos 
seem relatively modest. In part, this appears to be an artifact of the properties of the inertial 
Taylor rule benchmark. It builds in a response to lagged averages of inflation and output gaps. 
Thus, we already garner some of the benefits of an AIT strategy with our current approach. 
Third, most of the examples seem to focus on demand shocks. Large supply shocks, 
which we’ve been reminded of very recently, that raise both inflation and possibly 
unemployment would present potentially significant issues of concern. An inertial Taylor rule 
that responds appreciably to the output gap has the appealing property of reducing the role of 
inflation averaging precisely when it is less desirable. 
Fourth, all of these strategies, including the inertial Taylor rule, do not incorporate 
potentially important aspects of financial markets. In particular, the implications of strategies 
that hold rates low for long for asset prices, such as the potential for bubbles, are not in the 
models. Small gains in inflation stabilization could come at a cost of excessive leverage and 
asset price appreciation—a tradeoff that would concern me, because of the potential havoc 

created by the popping of bubbles. I am not convinced that we have the supervisory tools to 
limit leverage of households or firms. 
Tying into my first point: A commitment to a low interest rate path, regardless of the 
financial-stability consequences, seems like a risky strategy. A less costly way to address our 
unfortunate proximity to the lower bound is that once we know we are in a recession, we use all 
of our tools more aggressively. Knowing what we know now, it is likely that more aggressive 
use of forward guidance and balance sheet policy may be more effective than committing to an 
inflexible makeup strategy. However, the suggestion that we should move quickly is hampered 
by the fact that we do not instantaneously identify the onset of a recession, and certainly we have 
a flawed record of predicting the timing of the onset of a recession ahead of time. 
On a more positive note, I do find the example of the Czech experience interesting. First, 
the central bank adopted an inflation range, which made it clear that periods moderately away 
from the target are acceptable. I would prefer to avoid excessive fine-tuning in response to small 
deviations on either side of our target. In the current circumstances, I would be comfortable with 
a through-the-cycle approach in which we accept inflation above target during expansions, 
recognizing that recessions under the ELB will likely entail inflation below target for some time. 
I would also not resist opportunistic inflation shocks, but, in a situation with tight labor markets 
and rising financial stability risks, I would feel uneasy contorting markets to attain a slightly 
higher inflation rate. Adding to the probability of an episode of financial instability might pose 
much greater risks to the economy than missing our inflation target by a few tenths of a 
percentage point. 
In summary, I found the memos quite instructive. They helped me think through the 
underlying assumptions that could make alternative strategies work, the likelihood of these 

assumptions holding, and also some of the practical implications of putting such strategies into 
practice. That thought process has convinced me that, although rigid makeup strategies appear 
beguiling in the stylized models, a rigid commitment to such a strategy that ignores financial 
stability tradeoffs may not provide the desired benefits and would likely have costs that exceed 
the benefits. However, a more flexible range that averages through the cycle, so that periods of 
inflation somewhat above 2 percent were expected during good times, would ensure that 2 
percent was not a ceiling. Thank you very much. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also want to thank the System staff for all the 
work that they’ve done on these memos. I think you can tell by the discussion around the table 
today that they really raised a lot of issues and food for thought. And they’re not easy issues. 
There’s a lot of things that you have to think about when you think about our framework and 
how we actually implement monetary policy. 
Our experience during the Great Recession and the aftermath, I think, really underscores 
the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. I think we might have differed in our 
approaches of how to address policy. But I think no one would disagree that it was a very 
challenging time as we came through that period. And, even now, I think we still face 
challenges. 
If there’s a way to change our framework so that we can actually be more effective—and 
I agree with President Evans, who said it very eloquently, that we need to really focus on our 
goals and achieving our goals—if there’s a way of doing that so we can actually address some of 
the issues posed by the low interest rate environment, I think we really need to consider those 
changes—and consider them carefully. 

So, to me, a clear message in the memos is that, in theory, makeup strategies like price-
level targeting and average inflation targeting can have benefits, albeit modest ones, but those 
benefits depend crucially on the public understanding our policy strategy and policymakers being 
able to credibly commit to following through on their past promises. So these makeup strategies 
really depend on policymakers yielding some of their discretion. And we should understand that 
it’s not going to be enough to simply announce that we’re targeting average inflation now. 
We’re going to also have to indicate how we would systematically set policy to achieve that 
target. This type of communication has proven, I think, difficult for the Committee in the past. 
So along the lines of Occam’s razor, I’d like us to explore other ways we could actually 
communicate better and make our current policy framework more effective before we decide to 
change frameworks. And I also, like President Rosengren, found the Czech experience very 
instructive. Their economy, of course, is quite different from ours. But the experience suggests 
that coupling clear communication of commitments over relatively short periods with economic 
projections can be effective when at the lower bound. And I think the memo by Duarte and 
others, which was the first memo in the packet, also makes some suggestions for addressing the 
low-inflation bias induced by the ELB, including changing the policy rule we follow in a flexible 
inflation-targeting framework to act more aggressively when inflation deviates from its target. 
So I agree with President Bullard that this might be a useful approach and a way of thinking 
about our current framework and making it more effective. 
I also was gratified to see in the memo some discussion of the possible benefits of an 
inflation-targeting range as opposed to a point target as a communications device. And I agree 
with President Rosengren that thinking about addressing the inflation bias by a through-the-cycle 
strategy for the way we target inflation is worth exploring. And that would maybe actually get at 

some of President Evans’s question—that we say “symmetric,” but what does it really mean 
when we implement policy? 
Regardless of which framework we ultimately decide on, I hope we’ll explore ways to 
better communicate our reaction function and our strategy. This strategy document is very 
useful, and I certainly think having the explicit inflation target was a real step in the right 
direction. But there’s really not much strategy in the strategy document. We say we take a 
“balanced approach,” but what does that really mean? And I think some of the memos were very 
good at focusing on the question, what does it really mean when we’re setting policy and making 
decisions? 
So the magnitude of the benefits achievable with the different makeup frameworks 
discussed in the memos depends on how likely the current Committee and future Committees are 
able and willing to make those commitments. And, to my mind, the time-inconsistency 
problems loom large. In the models, the stabilization benefits are greater when the policy 
commitment is longer, but lengthening the commitment makes the policy less credible. So if you 
look at the credible window, the benefits of the makeup strategy could be quite small. And in the 
memo, looking across models, a four-year average inflation-targeting rule doesn’t do that much 
better at stabilizing inflation than the inertial Taylor rule. And an eight-year rule is somewhat 
more successful, but such a long window would likely overlap business cycle turning points and, 
in the “mild recession” scenario, would require the Committee to keep the funds rate below its 
neutral level for almost 20 years. 
To my mind, in a situation in which demand was weakening and inflation was currently 
running at 2 percent, I think it would be very hard for the Committee to explain that, nonetheless, 
it was going to keep its policy rate elevated to make up for the past overshoot of inflation. And, 

similarly, if inflation had been running low for a time, would the Committee be able to keep 
interest rates low if inflation were now well above target and with growth that’s well above 
trend? I think in such a situation, inflation expectations may well become unanchored or move 
in directions that wouldn’t necessarily capture benefits. So that tilts me toward the asymmetric 
or temporary makeup policies, should we opt to change frameworks. 
I think before we do anything, the robustness testing of a proposed framework from both 
theoretical and practical perspectives is extremely important. And I thought the analysis in the 
memo by Hebden and others—the third memo—was very instructive. But as was pointed out, 
it’s based on one model, the FRB/US model, rather than a set of models used in the Arias and 
others memo. And it focuses on demand shocks and not supply shocks. So I think we need to 
evaluate any proposed framework using a range of models across alternative economic 
conditions and further examine how the expected benefits could vary with different assumptions 
about the shape of the Phillips curve and how agents form expectations. As President Rosengren 
pointed out, if the models suggest that the benefits are modest, do we want to go through a big 
change in strategy that’s going to be difficult to explain to the public? In other words, I’d like to 
continue along those lines so we really can road-test the theory. 
There are some benefits that I think the model pointed out in terms of inflation 
expectations formation by households and businesses. No, they’re not fully rational, but they do 
seem to respond to information, which, again, to me underscores the importance of the 
communications that we use to explain what we’re doing no matter what our framework. 
Now, on the practical side, I think consultations with other central bankers about how 
their framework works in practice and what types of challenges they’ve confronted that may not 
be expected from the theoretical viewpoint could be quite instructive. I think it would also be 

useful to road-test any proposed changes with policymakers. I’m thinking about something 
along the lines of a “tabletop” exercise. The Financial Stability Subcommittee of the Conference 
of Presidents held two of these exercises. Of course, the focus was different, on the nexus 
between monetary policy and macroprudential policy, but I think we found these exercises quite 
useful. And I think we could set up similar exercises as a way to take us out of the models and to 
road-test how the proposed framework might actually work when policymakers are confronted 
with real-world choices under particular economic scenarios. And I think that would also help us 
figure out our communications and what type would be valuable on an ongoing basis to help us 
make policy more effective, independent of which framework we actually adopt. 
Finally, the discussion so far has, again, pointed up the fact that we may want to discuss 
our loss function. We’ve talked about having further discussions before. I think we use the 
symmetric quadratic loss function because there are microfoundations for that in the models 
about how that’s a simplification to optimally achieve our monetary policy goals. But the 
discussions and the Fed Listens events have often turned to, why are we worried about 
undershooting on the unemployment rate versus why are we so focused on that, and why do we 
think there’s a loss there? This may be, as part of this framework review, another chance to 
think about those microfoundations and think further about, well, in a low-r* environment, does 
that change? Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. First, like others, I’d like to thank the staff for the 
excellent memos developed for this meeting. They have very much helped me understand the 
key dimensions to be considered and helped me weigh the pros and cons of taking various 
approaches. 

Let me offer my top-line conclusion. I’m not persuaded that there are substantial gains to 
be realized from enhancing the current framework by formally adopting makeup strategies to 
address concerns about policy efficacy at the effective lower bound. In my view, the current 
framework was reasonably effective in managing the previous downturn and recovery. This was 
an important point that I took from the July meeting’s special-topic memos and from assessments 
such as those in the Fed Listens conference paper by Eberly, Stock, and Wright. 
Moreover, I think that the lessons learned from past experience will allow us to deploy 
our existing unconventional tools faster, more aggressively, and more effectively in the event 
that they are needed. I can see there is still a considerable amount of uncertainty about these 
tools. But I don’t think this uncertainty is more significant than the uncertainties associated with 
the alternative strategies described in the briefings for this meeting. In particular, it is clear that 
the effective use of any makeup strategy requires a degree of credibility in following through on 
commitments over time. I have to say, my eyebrows definitely raised when I noticed some of 
the time horizons for some of these policies. As Governor Clarida and many others around the 
table have noted, these are pretty long, and that makes this a very serious issue. 
Now, for sure, forward guidance raises the same questions as makeup strategies regarding 
commitment and credibility. But I’m not convinced that it’s easier to solve these problems 
within a makeup strategy. To the contrary, I’m fairly convinced that the communications 
challenges associated with most of the makeup strategies are larger than under forward guidance. 
To give an example, I’m pretty sure that it will be somewhat confounding to normal 
people when we have to explain that what we call “average inflation targeting” does not actually 
guarantee, or even really necessarily aim at, 2 percent average inflation. I would rather not just 
go there unless I can be convinced that we can accomplish things with the makeup scheme that 

we cannot accomplish with forward guidance. I’m also not convinced these strategies buy us 
much at the ELB. My read of the simulations contained in the memos for this meeting is that the 
mechanism at the heart of these strategies is a lower-for-longer path of the federal funds rate. It 
seems to me that this can be accomplished with clear, perhaps state-contingent, forward 
guidance, and perhaps the Czech model can be instructive in thinking about this. 
To summarize my responses to the specific questions posed for this go-round: Regarding 
question 1, I am not convinced that the costs and benefits relative to the current framework argue 
for a framework that explicitly incorporates a makeup strategy. For question 2, if the Committee 
does decide to move forward in formally adopting a framework that incorporates makeup 
strategies, I feel strongly that the strategy should be in place both at and away from the ELB. 
And regarding symmetry, I prefer an emphasis on state dependence rather than locking into a 
symmetric or asymmetric stance. And, finally, on the question of robustness of relative 
expectations, I am largely persuaded by the memos that if we get financial markets and 
businesses on board, we will be in good shape. I’m also convinced that any issues with these 
stakeholders can be resolved by coherent communications and consistent application of our 
strategies within the current framework. 
I’d like to close by raising one issue that I think is conspicuously missing in our 
discussion thus far. The conversation on makeup strategies, in particular, has been largely cast in 
terms of what should be done about the effective lower bound. Now, this is obviously a vitally 
important question, and others have noted that this has been an issue that other central banks 
have struggled with. But there’s an additional—and, in my view, more fundamental—question, 
something that President Evans pointed to. And the question is, do we, as a Committee, actually 
care if we define our price-stability objective in terms of convergence toward the 2 percent goal 

as opposed to actually averaging 2 percent over some relevant horizon? And the answer to that 
question determines what forms of makeup strategies we want to actively consider and which 
ones we want to rule out. Or, as was discussed earlier, what dimensions of our current strategy 
require particular heightened attention to consider as a change? 
For example, if our objective is to ensure that we do not stray too far from a 2 percent 
average, then it seems clear that we ought to be focused on some version, perhaps, of price-level 
targeting or change to a range or a full-throated, relentless commitment to symmetry as pushed 
by President Evans. If we decide that some form of makeup strategy is absolutely what we need 
to deal with ELB issues, I don’t think that we should proceed further without first wrestling to 
the ground the question of how we should explicitly represent the 2 percent goal as a general 
matter. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with much of what’s already been said, 
so let me just add a few of my own comments. So, first, let me also add my thanks—danke 
schön, just to mix it up a little bit [laughter]—for the great work. These are thought-provoking 
and very well done memos. I want to thank you for that. They obviously touch on a host of 
issues surrounding our ability to maintain well-anchored inflation expectations. As we know, 
because inflation is likely to run below target when a zero-lower-bound event occurs, it will be 
necessary to let inflation average slightly above 2 percent. I mean, that was the whole point of 
the memos. 
In that regard, I think we should just depart from the symmetric language regarding our 
target, and I think that’s something we should do relatively soon. When inflation finally exceeds 
2 percent, the Committee could indicate—and we could do this sooner than that—that a slight 

overshoot is consistent with the long-run goal of the average inflation rate of 2 percent, and the 
Committee is comfortable with inflation running a bit above 2 percent when we’re away from 
the ELB. This conduct of policy has been exposited by Mertens and Williams and is referred to 
as “average inflation targeting over the long run.” I think that’s what we can do, without 
changing the whole framework. 
In that sense, I am in favor of a slightly asymmetric approach to policy when we are away 
from the effective lower bound. But until inflation actually exceeds 2 percent, I think it’s 
premature to indicate that the Committee has changed its policy—that is, I’d rather walk the 
walk before we talk the talk. And I think this goes back to some comments—I think President 
Bullard’s—earlier that the best way of proving that we can do this is to do it and not talk about 
doing it. 
I do not believe, however, as I said, that we should formally adopt average inflation 
targeting, either symmetric or asymmetric. Although it’s very attractive from an analytical point 
of view, I am uncertain as to how these types of policies would be perceived in a world with less 
than fully rational agents. Now, although there are potential gains from such an approach, as we 
see, they may not be large enough to risk the potential cost that could ensue if we simply end up 
confusing people. As memo 3 points out, both average and symmetric inflation targeting run the 
risk of unanchoring inflation expectations when the public does not possess fully rational 
expectations. And although, in the FRB/US model, it’s enough that the financial market 
participants are rational for expectations to remain anchored, I’m not confident that this is a 
robust result that would be obtained in other settings with other models. 
Regarding a symmetric average inflation target, I also worry about the credibility, as 
others have, of such a policy. Do we really think that future Committees would be willing to 

offset misses to the upside? And do we think the public will believe that is going to be the case? 
We know that policies work quite differently when they’re not believed compared with when 
they are, and I’m skeptical that average inflation targeting would be a credible policy strategy. 
Additionally, the makeup strategies would be extraordinarily difficult to communicate, as we’ve 
all said. 
To summarize, I favor dropping symmetry from our statement and letting inflation run 
slightly above 2 percent when away from the effective lower bound, but I would only wish to 
formalize this strategy once we’ve delivered an inflation rate of at least 2 percent—that is, when 
we’ve walked the walk. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thus far, we’ve had a well-constructed but heavy emphasis on makeup 
strategies. I’m looking forward to the coming sessions that Governor Clarida outlined where, 
like others, I hope we’ll also be exploring ranging our target using multiple supporting core 
inflation metrics and evolving our communication. All that said, if the Committee were to 
formally adopt a makeup strategy, I would be drawn to the temporary variants, which are more 
likely to be credible even if less effective, and the asymmetric ones, which are more likely to be 
palatable. 
At the core, like President Bostic just said, I do focus on concerns about credibility and 
the difficulty of communications. With respect to President Evans’s earlier question on public 
reaction, I understand the Bank of Canada, in its last review, decided against makeup strategies 
after conducting a field test that convinced them the public would not respond as the models 
predict. In a flat Phillips curve world, these concerns are especially relevant. Makeup strategies 
have us going all in to push inflation up, but we really don’t know how long that will take. 

Adopting a strategy such as this would be an aggressive experiment on the world’s most 
important economy, and I really don’t feel it’s been well tested elsewhere. And that testing 
matters because success elsewhere would be critical to the credibility we need. The Czech 
example, while interesting, isn’t exactly on point. 
What concerns me? With the promise of low rates for a long time, a number of things 
can go wrong. President Rosengren mentioned asset bubbles, and, of course, inflation might 
eventually rise more than we want. But there’s also a third risk I’ll discuss tomorrow: the 
excessive substitution for labor. Central bank credibility is also a risk. A makeup strategy 
commits us to a rule. If we don’t have the success we desire, it could erode our reputation. Can 
we rule out that extended low-rate policies aimed at preventing a low-inflation outcome end up 
causing exactly that as businesses become pessimistic, banks become weaker, leverage 
constrains investment, and people become accustomed to low interest rates, which they expect to 
last indefinitely? 
I agree with President Bullard on the following: The longest effective-lower-bound 
episodes are in Japan and Europe, and both arguably added strong verbal commitments, yet 
neither gives much hope that extended time at the lower bound delivers inflation at target. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to the staff for these memos. 
They certainly spurred a lot of debate among our team at the Dallas Fed. And, I guess, first and 
foremost, a big part of our discussion was trying to define the term “adopt,” and what does the 
term “commitment” mean? Is it an obligation to act? Is it a presumption that you will act, but 
it’s not an obligation? Or is it simply a consideration? 

We had a long conversation about the decision process of the FOMC. First, there’s the 
analytical phase, in which we take into account tools, decision rules, and maybe average inflation 
targeting. And then the second phase is, everyone around the table uses their judgment, and, as 
we’ve seen as part of a balanced approach, each of us—and today is a good example—weight 
those various considerations differently and come to a different place, even though we’re using 
the same analytics. And then, as a group, we take action. And what we’re confused about on 
some of these issues, and I think even around our own team—each person had a slightly different 
understanding of what the term “adopt” means, as I think you heard some feedback about. 
I’m very reluctant to adopt strategies that obligate us to act and skip the judgment phase, 
in which people can balance. I’m probably also very hesitant even to adopt an approach that 
gives a presumption during the judgment phase that people will act. I don’t think I am opposed to 
a tool that is a consideration in the analysis phase but allows each of us, as part of a balanced 
approach, to weight these different factors. 
In that regard, we also had a long conversation, and my team explained to me that we 
actually have average inflation targeting right now, it’s just that it’s based on one year—
basically, it’s 12-month lagging headline PCE inflation. And, in that regard, going to two years 
or three years or four years—it’s a change, and it might be something to consider. I think our 
team prefers to use headline PCE inflation or some other measure, not core inflation, but it would 
only be comfortable using that approach if it’s part of the analytical part of the process and not a 
presumption or an obligation to act on it. 
Average inflation targeting, for me, could be very useful if it’s one of several 
considerations. I think the Taylor rule, or modified Taylor rule, could be another consideration. 

And I think, in that regard, my own view is, average inflation targeting could be very useful as 
one other item to consider in the analysis before we get to our judgments. 
I liked a number of the comments led by President Evans about being committed to an 
outcome-based approach but not committing to a rule or rules-based approach. And I thought 
that was a great way to say it. I would be willing to tolerate an inflation overshoot if we wanted 
to be more analytical about how we describe that. Maybe average inflation targeting over some 
makeup window could be a useful way to quantify that, and so I’m open to it, but, again, as long 
as it’s a consideration, not a presumption or an obligation to act. And I think in our discussions 
of these matters, we may have to start being much more precise about what we mean, because I 
think these rules strike each of us very differently based on what it is—is it an obligation or 
presumption or just a consideration? For me, a consideration might make it very useful. 
Last comment. I do think we have a public communication problem. I mentioned this at 
the July meeting, and I’ll say it again. I don’t think we’ve adequately explained to the public 
why low inflation below target by itself is undesirable. The public understands why low real 
GDP growth is bad. I think the public understands why low nominal GDP growth is bad. I think 
the public understands why high inflation is bad, which is why I think some of this old language 
about “We’re going to be careful above 2 percent” lags, associated with previous generations 
when the issue was we had high inflation. 
I don’t think the public understands—if my regional and Dallas Fed boards are any 
indication, which I think they are—why below-target inflation by itself is bad or even 
inconsistent with price stability unless it’s in the context of low nominal GDP growth. Once we 
explain it that way, they get it. And I wonder if, in our public communication, particularly if 
we’re going to beef up, at a minimum, mention in our framework about being willing to 

overshoot in our efforts to avoid the lower bound, I think that we might, as a Committee, be well 
served to get some communication advice. Maybe we’d be better off doing a better job 
reframing the dangers of low inflation. For me, the most resonant way to explain it is in the 
context of low nominal GDP growth. Encounters with the lower bound make sense to us, but I 
don’t think they resonate very well with people “outside the trade,” so to speak. But I think 
framing this in a better way, in terms of the risk of running low nominal GDP or other 
explanations on why low inflation is dangerous, I think we’d be well served to beef this up as 
part of the framework review so we get more public support for what we’re about to potentially 
do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And with that, we will take our lunch break and resume 
at 1:00 p.m. sharp. Thank you. 
 [Lunch recess] 
CHAIR POWELL. We will resume our go-round with Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d also like to start by thanking the staff for 
their work on the framework review. These questions are challenging, and the memos on the 
alternative strategies provide a lot to think about. I think it’s very valuable to engage in these 
discussions and the framework review process more broadly. 
I viewed the latest three memos as addressing a narrow question: What actions could the 
Committee consider when the existing toolkit fails to bring inflation up to its 2 percent target? 
The memos provide a description of what outcomes we can expect to achieve using various 
makeup strategies but without the influence of balance sheet policies or effective forward 
guidance. 

When we engage in discussions about our policy framework, it’s important to consider 
our current state. The unemployment rate is lower than at any time since the 1960s, inflation has 
remained close to our target relative to historical standards, and the financial system generally 
looks to be resilient. In this regard, the current policy framework has served us well, and our 
challenge now is whether to consider taking action that would move us closer to our inflation 
target. 
I recognize that our experience with forward guidance and balance sheet policies is 
limited. However, there is evidence that these policies helped reduce or at least contain the 
economic damage inflicted during the recent financial crisis. The analysis presented in the 
memos focuses on addressing the issues we’re facing at present. We’re in an environment in 
which the natural rate of interest is very low and in which inflation is not responding as we 
expect when we run a “hot” economy. But in order to complete a thorough review of our 
framework, in my mind, we need to address inflation in a broader context. We should give 
careful consideration to whether these or other strategies would be effective or even appropriate 
during a time of a persistent overshooting of inflation. 
We can all recall episodes when high and volatile inflation was a problem, and we should 
acknowledge the possibility that events we can’t anticipate or control could once again push us 
in that direction. We also need to be open to the idea that the low interest rate environment may 
not be an indefinite circumstance. Our understanding of the structural changes that exist now are 
incomplete, and the effects of these structural changes are uncertain. It’s possible that the factors 
that led to a lower natural rate of interest will unwind and, therefore, make it less likely that we 
run up against the lower-bound constraint over an extended time horizon. 

If we decide to go forward with some form of makeup strategy, communicating this new 
approach will be challenging. Even if we’re careful to provide a clear and comprehensive 
roadmap in good times, that will not necessarily ensure that the implementation occurs smoothly 
when the time comes to actually use the makeup strategy. 
I would also like to see the Committee communicate more precisely what we mean by the 
goal of price stability. In the short time I’ve been on the FOMC, I’ve observed material 
differences in our individual interpretations of the 2 percent inflation target. Should we view 
where we are now as essentially achieving our target, or should we consider it a deviation that 
we should take action to address? Outside what range around the 2 percent target would we 
consider it necessary to implement one of these strategies or another one? Other central banks 
have set a range for their inflation rates. We’ve defined a target, but we’ve not come to a 
consensus about what level of inflation warrants Committee action. 
The strength of our monetary policy framework depends on our answers to these 
questions and on the public’s understanding of them. I believe that we could strengthen our 
policy framework by providing the public more clarity on these issues. Agreeing upon and 
articulating our goals for inflation as clearly as possible will give us the best chance to ensure 
that our policy actions are effective. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Like everyone else, let me also thank the staff for 
the excellent memos. I was struck by something President Mester said, and I completely agree 
that you can judge the success of the memos you produced—not just now but in the previous 
versions—from the level of the discussion around the table. And I think from that mark, it’s 
hard to say you get anything but an A+. So I really appreciate it. 

Now, as part of executing on our dual mandate, we have set ourselves the explicit goal of 
achieving PCE inflation of 2 percent. And I have interpreted that as 2 percent, on average, over 
an averaging window that is a year or more, but really that we want it on average. That’s what I 
thought of as symmetric, so it’s in that framework that I am thinking about the framework. 
So the review of our monetary policy framework, then, asks how best to do that in the 
world we see before us. Now, as I view it, we start from a really good position. The framework 
that we have used since the Volcker disinflation anchored long-term inflation expectations and 
contributed to the Great Moderation. This has kept inflation low and stable in both good times 
and bad. But looking back, it is clear that those were different times—times when inflation was 
mostly at or above target, the Phillips curve was steep, and we had ample policy space to achieve 
our goals. 
Economic conditions have changed since then. Structural changes in global labor and 
product markets are putting downward pressure on inflation, forcing us to confront a sustained 
deflationary environment. In addition, the Phillips curve is flatter, and it can be hard to see the 
tradeoff between economic slack and wages and prices, at least in the short run. And slowing 
productivity growth and changes in demographics have led to a lower real neutral rate of interest, 
leaving us less policy space and limiting our ability to meet our policy objectives. 
Indeed, I would argue that we are in the midst of these new economic conditions right 
now. The Phillips curve is flat, policy space is limited, and inflation has undershot our 2 percent 
target for most of the past decade. The sustained downside miss on inflation has already shown 
through into lower market-based and survey expectations, which have edged lower over the past 
five years. Ongoing future misses, both immediately and as we proceed over the next decade, 

carry the risk that a nominal anchor may slip below our 2 percent goal, further reducing our 
policy space. This is currently happening in Europe. 
So the question is, what can be done in these new and different times—not the ones 
we’ve come from, but the ones we’re in and looking ahead to—that ensures we consistently meet 
our 2 percent PCE inflation target and maintain our nominal inflation anchor? And in that 
context, I am pulled to strongly consider an alternative framework that makes up for past 
inflation misses and telegraphs to the public that we remain committed to our 2 percent target. 
Such alternative frameworks clearly tell businesses and households that we dislike extended 
periods of inflation undershooting and that we are ready to make up for them. As the memos 
detail, establishing the credibility of such a framework before we experience a recession provides 
the added benefit of offsetting, at least partially, the deflationary bias induced by the effective 
lower bound. 
Now, of course, as the memos also note, any multiyear strategy suffers from time 
inconsistency. Policies we commit to today may appear too costly to implement when the time 
comes to act. So the public will likely be skeptical of our promises until we deliver them. As 
President Harker said, we are going to need to “walk the walk” before the talk becomes actually 
more than just that. So this pushes me to policies with the following features. First, they should 
be easily understandable and observationally verifiable. Providing the public with measurable 
markers over reasonable periods allows households and businesses to check our work, if you 
will, and quickly see if we are delivering on our stated objectives. 
Second, the commitments can’t be so long that they are producing financial risks or other 
unintended consequences. I’m persuaded by the remarks of Presidents Rosengren and Mester 
and others about how we don’t want to create unintended imbalances. It won’t serve us well if 

our commitments place future Committees in the difficult position of choosing between keeping 
our promises—and, thus, our credibility—or creating these imbalances. 
An attractive option that balances these objectives is average inflation targeting with a 
very short window. And by “very short,” I mean three years. It has the advantage over the 
current framework of keeping policy rates lower for longer following periods of below-target 
inflation. And with a short averaging window, this policy would mitigate some of the financial 
stability risks that lower-for-longer strategies may entail. 
Now, in the materials we were given, it looks like the effect of these things can be de 
minimis, but, in fact, I would argue that such a framework might have helped today. It would 
signal that we are prepared to be slightly accommodative until PCE inflation averages 2 percent 
over the defined window. It would also have the added benefit of building credibility and an 
understanding of a framework such as this before the next downturn. And it might allow us to 
walk the walk. 
I didn’t have this in my remarks, but I think President Bullard made a really good point 
earlier, which is, when we and our predecessors were going through the Volcker disinflation, 
there was a lot of skepticism about whether we could really deliver 2 percent anchored inflation 
expectations, and we did. So the idea that it’s difficult doesn’t mean that it’s impossible. That’s 
just something to highlight. But you do have to walk the walk. 
That said, no framework is a panacea, and average inflation targeting, even with a short 
window, is not without risk: risk that households and businesses will be slow to grasp the 
change and focus on realized rather than promised inflation, mitigating or tempering some of the 
effects of the strategy; risk that we will face unwanted inflation, inflation that’s too high, and 
have to offset it rather than simply curb it and bring it back to 2; and risk that any framework we 

choose will not be enough to manage the considerable challenges we face in the future. So 
whatever we decide on as our framework, we likely will need to be fully prepared to deploy our 
complete set of tools—conventional and unconventional—if we are to achieve our goals in this 
new environment. 
The last thing I want to say is that there’s this concept that I’ve been grappling with, and 
it was really influenced by some of the remarks today of “We don’t want to go lower for longer 
for too long.” That’s clear. But there’s also a pull to be intentionally lower for longer and not 
have to be reactively lower for longer, like Europe has to do right now. I mean, you can wait, 
but then you have to do it, or you’re forced to do it, whereas you could be systematic and front-
run it and maybe prevent getting there in the first place. So with that, I’ll conclude. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I join others in thanking the staff for these 
background papers. Whether or not we ultimately make any changes to our framework, I think 
this process is essential, in my view, to the credibility of our decisionmaking, our commitment to 
transparency, and our collective learning about the changing landscape. So I hope the exercise 
will become a regular feature of the Committee’s policy framework. 
Regarding the three questions posed by the staff, my responses are more general than 
specific to the alternative strategies and focus primarily on clear and credible communications 
rather than a fundamental strategy reset. The costs and benefits associated with committing to a 
makeup strategy strike me as highly uncertain and difficult to communicate to the public in a 
clear and credible manner. While the modest benefits of makeup strategies are evident in the 
models that we’ve been talking about, how the public would come to view and understand a 

change in our strategy that will necessarily entail numerous implementation details suggests to 
me that the costs could be significant. 
These makeup policies necessitate decisions to manage or fine-tune inflation in the short 
run, moving inflation at times above and possibly at other times below 2 percent to achieve a 
longer-run objective on average. Such fine-tuning risks destabilizing inflation expectations and 
raises questions about whether short-term actions would be consistent with longer-run goals. 
Moving to a framework like this could also put at risk the credibility that already exists around 
our current strategy and goals in favor of an untested alternative that’s likely to be difficult to 
explain. Given the costs and uncertainties associated with alternative makeup policies, my 
preference is to consider how to bolster the credibility of our existing framework. 
I thought Governor Philip Lowe of the Reserve Bank of Australia framed it well in his 
remarks at Jackson Hole when he said, “Keeping inflation close to target is part of the answer, 
but it is not the full answer.” Given the uncertainties we face, it’s appropriate that we have a 
degree of flexibility. But when we use this flexibility, we need to explain why we’re doing it and 
how our decisions are consistent with our mandate. 
We also recognize that short-term inflation control looks harder than it once was, and 
there is more uncertainty about what is required to deliver this outcome. In the end, simple and 
clear communication that the broader public can understand is critical, and I find myself agreeing 
wholeheartedly with President Evans’s outcome-based focus. I think we should reorient 
ourselves to that. 
Within our existing framework, I see two opportunities to bolster the credibility of our 
policy strategy. One is to further define what a balanced approach means as it relates to 
achieving our dual mandate when the objectives are in conflict. The other is to explore how we 

might use forward guidance more effectively to influence expectations and outcomes in 
anticipation of future encounters with the ELB. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I, too, thought the memos were excellent at 
framing the discussion. I agree with President George that the background the memos provide is 
an important outcome of this review. I, too, would like to see the review become a regular 
feature of the Committee, maybe something like the Bank of Canada does, at some regular 
periodic cycle. 
I think that the regularity of assessing and questioning of one’s assumptions and 
intellectual frameworks is important in any policy setting. And so one of the things that I would 
want to caution us about as we continue this discussion is that really being open to where that 
leads also means being open to the fact that it might not lead anywhere. And I think that if we 
want this to be a regular feature of the Committee, which, again, I do think is just good 
intellectual hygiene, if we feel ourselves in this process painted into a corner of doing something 
because we have done so much work on it, future Committees may be reluctant to undertake the 
process if they don’t think that there is, perhaps, anything that really needs to be changed at the 
time. And I wouldn’t want to have that be a disincentive to what is a good regular practice. 
So, following the memos in talking about alternative frameworks, I am going to direct my 
comments primarily toward average inflation targeting, as I think the memos did, particularly 
when thinking of the costs and benefits relative to our current flexible inflation-targeting 
framework. The memos list essentially three major benefits of average inflation targeting that 
build on one another. First, a public understanding that policy rates will be lower for longer 
during recessions will, in turn, second, deliver greater accommodation from the start, which, in 

turn, third, will support inflation relative to the current framework, will do that better than the 
current framework, and is, therefore, more effective at preventing inflation expectations from 
slipping. 
All of that seems very logical and laudable, but the memos also make it clear that the 
ability of average inflation targeting to deliver that inflation that’s deemed necessary to anchor 
expectations where we want them is very much constrained by the flatness of the Phillips curve. 
But that’s the problem we are facing with our current framework. A flat Phillips curve is going 
to make it difficult to target small precision changes in the inflation rate regardless of the 
particular framework in which we are doing that. And what are the potential costs of average 
inflation targeting? 
Well, because the framework is primarily a structure for communicating our policy, the 
cost would be if, in adopting a new framework, the public or the markets were to become 
confused as to what we’re doing, or perhaps they would perceive that we are making promises 
that we’re unlikely to be able to keep, and that would damage our credibility. They may not 
know what it is we’re doing. They may have a perfect understanding of what we’re doing and 
believe that it’s not actually credible. 
The memos focus on one aspect of the broad communications challenges that are 
associated with AIT. Namely, that’s the challenge of adopting a time-inconsistent policy, a 
policy that is structured to produce benefits before it incurs costs, also known as the Wimpy 
burger phenomenon: “I will gladly pay you Tuesday for a hamburger today.” [Laughter] 
The memos make it clear that average inflation targeting is likely to be more effective the 
more credible the commitment. That is to say, depending on how binding the policy prescription 
or rule is thought to be, it’s from knowing that the Committee will follow that rule in the future 

that the framework gains its power. So as we consider constraining future Committees in the 
way that some of these makeup strategies would, it’s probably useful to review why we found it 
difficult to adopt formal constraints on ourselves—for example, through adoption of a formal 
policy rule, like the Taylor rule, say. 
Besides the difficulty of distilling the varied views of a large Committee into a single 
rule—maps versus flags or “hawks versus doves” or larks like me—another issue of concern 
associated with formal rules is that they prioritize a certain subset of the data when, rather, the 
complexity and evolving nature of the economy argues for the consideration of a wide range of 
indicators and assessing the state of the economy at any particular moment. So although a 
backward-looking inflation average might make an appealing target now, the memos make it 
clear that that’s not always going to be the case, especially if inflation has been running above 
target for a time before a recession, such as was the case in 2008. 
The world is messy. The data often don’t speak for themselves. Sometimes they need a 
little interpretation. When I arrived at the Board in the fall of 2017, discussions of inflation, 
which was then running a few tenths below target, inevitably contained a reference. It was a 
guideline, maybe even a federal rule of some sort, to the sharp fall in cellphone charges that was 
observed in March 2017. 
Every single discussion of inflation said, of course, cellphone charges. I was very 
relieved when we got to March 2018 [laughter] when that decline finally dropped out of the 
12-month window and we could stop nattering on about it every time we talked about inflation. I 
certainly wouldn’t have wanted to have to keep talking about cellphone charges for the next four 
or eight years as we waited for something similar to drop out of the long-run average. 

More fundamentally, I want to touch on some issues that I brought up at the previous 
meeting that I think are still relevant for the discussion today. First, I find it difficult to interpret 
model simulations that constrain the Committee’s use of balance sheet policies. That’s not the 
world we live in. Model simulations that are based on a binding ELB constraint aren’t very 
informative if they rule out balance sheet policies that the Committee is likely to take and that 
the market is likely to expect us to take if there were to be a severe downturn. 
Second, in the current environment with low r* and low inflation, it’s really unlikely that 
any change in the framework will keep us off the ELB. The memos give the motivation for the 
consideration of alternative frameworks as the high probability of returning to the ELB. Well, 
from the information in the memos—very well done—I seriously doubt that adopting alternative 
inflation targeting is going to materially decrease the chance of hitting the ELB. The memos 
certainly don’t report those probabilities, so I look at an examination of our toolkit at the ELB as 
a high priority. 
And I think our discussion of tools and policy options available when the short-term 
policy rate is constrained by the ELB—because it would appear that that’s going to be the world 
we are living in for some period of time, no matter what we do about frameworks—should be as 
robust and prominent as our discussion of alternative frameworks. 
To my mind, it really all comes down to this. Brigham Young was a bad speller, and he 
attributed this fact to the framework of English orthography. What rules there were were 
illogical. In many cases, there were no rules at all. There were simply irregular practices that 
were learned by rote, and they served as an obstacle to communication. 
And because this is the sort of thing you can do when you are the sole autocrat of a 
remote desert theocracy in the vastness of the Rocky Mountains [laughter], circumstances that 

you might envy, Mr. Chair [laughter], he decreed that, henceforth, communication in the territory 
of Utah would be in the Deseret alphabet, a set of 38 entirely new symbols, each assigned 
uniquely to a separate phoneme, created by the most intellectual of his rough-and-ready apostles 
to perfect communication of the gospel. It was taught in the schools. Newspapers and street 
signs were printed in it. Sermons and correspondence were written in it. Official documents of 
the territorial government were transcribed into it. And it was the alphabet of the first complete 
English Hopi dictionary. 
On my desk in Utah, at our house in the foothills of the tallest mountain of the Wasatch 
Range, I have a copy of the Book of Mormon printed in the Deseret alphabet. I keep it there as a 
symbol of the limits of logic to perfect human action, because that book is one of the rarest 
books in North America, one of only a small handful of printed materials in the Deseret alphabet 
that remain. 
Notwithstanding the decree of Brigham Young—which, in his day, was absolute law in 
an area that stretched from San Bernardino to the top of the Continental Divide—the Deseret 
alphabet was a complete bust. It turns out that people already knew an alphabet. They did not 
want to learn a new one, not even one given to them by a prophet or by the Federal Reserve. 
[Laughter] The new alphabet was hard and alien. Fonts were expensive and bespoke. And 
whatever the limitations of its grammar and orthography, English, as it was written, was 
adequately fit for the purpose of building an empire in the Rockies. And it was in sturdy roman 
characters rather than the Deseret alphabet that we made the desert blossom as a rose. 
I worry that we would encounter some of the same problems were we to seek a 
significant recrafting of our policy framework, and that, even in the best case, the significant 
transition costs would be simply unnecessary. Brigham Young’s problem was not the 

framework of English orthography. He just needed to work on his spelling. [Laughter] 
Similarly, I believe that our existing framework is entirely adequate for the purpose of 
formulating and communicating monetary policy. And to the extent that there is room for 
improvement, we should focus on improving our spelling and not reforming the alphabet. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari, it falls to you to follow. [Laughter] 
MR. KASHKARI. I’d like to yield my time. [Laughter] I’ll be very brief. Like many 
of you, I thought the memos highlighted that there’s a lot of complexity and probably marginal 
benefits in going with one of these makeup strategies that Governor Quarles just ended with. I 
actually think our existing symmetric framework provides us a lot of flexibility to actually 
achieve a lot of the benefits that these makeup strategies could achieve in theory if we are willing 
to use that flexibility. 
To date, we have not been willing to use the flexibility. I think many of us have treated it 
like a ceiling. So the first thing I would say is, as we go through this process and we consider 
refining our strategy statement, it would be great if we all got on the same page on what a 
symmetric inflation target means. I think that’s a useful objective on its own, first of all, because 
I think there’s a wide range of opinions around the table of what that means. 
And, second, I hope that wherever we land is a place that embraces more flexibility rather 
than less flexibility. An example of this would be a forward-looking symmetric inflation 
objective of 2 percent, which could acknowledge the ELB and could acknowledge that, at the 
ELB, we’ll likely be below 2 percent. So when we’re away from the ELB, we might be 
somewhat above 2 percent, and then that would be consistent with the symmetric inflation target. 

I think that that’s not exactly where we are today, but I think that’s consistent with our broader 
framework, and I think it’s a better place to end up than where we are today. 
That’s it. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great, thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. Well, I’m very happy to have the opportunity to engage 
in this discussion. I appreciate the Chair’s leadership and the roadmap charted by Governor 
Clarida. It is very important to review and strengthen our framework in light of the key features 
of the new normal. 
In my mind, there are three, maybe three and a half. Inflation is low. Underlying trend 
inflation is stuck below 2 percent, according to a variety of statistical filtering methods. And, 
with the experience of inflation undershooting the target for most of the past 10 years, there’s a 
risk that inflation expectations have slipped, as suggested by some survey measures and 
measures of inflation compensation. 
Second, the sensitivity of price inflation to resource utilization is very low. As we’ve 
discussed previously, a flat Phillips curve has the important advantage of pulling more sidelined 
workers back into productive employment, but it also makes it hard to achieve our 2 percent 
inflation objective on a sustained basis. And it means that the traditional relationship between 
inflation and unemployment can be a very misleading guide when policy is being set 
preemptively. And, of course, it raises questions about the balanced approach in our Statement 
on Longer-Run Goals. 
Third, the equilibrium rate is very low. The Committee’s median projection has fallen 
from 4¼ percent to 2½ percent over the past seven years. That means the conventional policy 

buffer is now only half of the 450 to 500 basis points in policy rate cuts that the FOMC would 
typically deliver in the face of recessionary pressures over the past five decades. 
That large loss of policy space will tend to increase, as the simulations show, the 
frequency or length of periods when the policy rate is pinned at the lower bound, unemployment 
is elevated, and inflation is below target. And, in turn, that experience risks eroding private-
sector inflation expectations and further compressing conventional policy space. 
The result that I think we are trying to avoid here is a downward spiral whereby 
conventional policy space gets compressed even further. The lower bound binds even more 
frequently, and it becomes increasingly challenging to return inflation to target, as we’ve seen in 
Japan and more recently are seeing in the euro area. This is particularly concerning if fiscal 
policy can’t be counted on to play its traditional countercyclical role. 
Finally, it’s also important to keep in mind the potential spillovers for monetary policy 
settings in other major jurisdictions. The fact that the euro area and Japan are struggling with 
more extreme versions of this unholy trinity only reinforces the case for strengthening our policy 
framework here. 
So, turning to the rules for consideration today, I want to thank the staff for really 
excellent memos that roughly quantify the potential advantages of adopting certain forms of 
makeup strategies and highlight the assumptions on expectations, time consistency, and interest 
rate sensitivity that are most important in determining the potential gains. The memos suggest 
that makeup strategies have some advantages over a “let bygones be bygones” approach, while 
also doing a nice job illustrating that the makeup rules under consideration themselves have 
some important challenges. 

One straightforward conclusion is that there’s little to recommend a symmetric approach, 
as we have a largely one-sided problem that we’re trying to address. We have plentiful 
conventional policy space with which to deal with inflation exceeding our target—in contrast to 
the discontinuity associated with the ELB that risks weakening inflation expectations from 
below. So it makes sense to restrict our attention to solutions that reflect that asymmetry. 
It’s implausible that a future FOMC would remain committed to pushing inflation below 
2 percent just on the basis of its past success getting inflation to run above 2 percent for a few 
years once the post-crisis subpar performance drops out of the makeup window. But even with 
an asymmetric average-inflation-targeting rule and fairly well aligned expectations, the 
simulations suggest it would take many years just to get inflation back to target following a 
lower-bound episode. 
As many of you have pointed out, communications during that period would be 
exceptionally challenging. If the inflation process works as slowly as in exhibits on pages 8 and 
10, for about a decade the Committee would be explaining that it is pursuing inflation above 
2 percent to make up for the previous stretch of inflation below the target, while actual inflation 
would continue to come in below 2 percent. 
Indeed, if it takes a decade to get inflation back to 2 percent and even longer to 
implement a makeup overshoot, there could well be a return to the effective lower bound before 
that initial makeup is achieved, in which case the “makeup” dimension of the AIT policy 
wouldn’t be observable through a full cycle. 
On the flip side, if the expansion were to continue long enough for inflation to move 
above 2 percent, under the stronger versions of the AIT rule the time-consistency problem would 

kick in. This illustrates what I view as perhaps the greatest challenge associated with these 
approaches, which is how we would communicate to the public what we are aiming to achieve. 
I have four requests for future work. First, I would like to see how an AIT rule might 
compare with an inflation-threshold-based policy, both from the perspective of economic models 
and with regard to the ease of communications and expectation setting. And this is, in particular, 
in ELB episodes. My reading of the literature is that a framework along the lines of the one 
outlined by Bernanke, Kiley, and Roberts—using a state-based threshold strategy in which we 
simply commit to delay liftoff until our 2 percent goal has been achieved on a sustained basis, 
say, for a year—could improve our performance on our dual-mandate goals while being much 
simpler to communicate and execute and potentially would not encounter the time-inconsistency 
problem with some of the AIT rules. 
My interest in this approach may simply reflect personal experience, because in 2015 and 
2016, I was worried that the Committee jumped the gun, guided by an “old normal” level of the 
equilibrium rate and Phillips curve relationship that were no longer in evidence. With the benefit 
of hindsight, delaying liftoff might have led to better inflation performance. 
Second—similar, I think, to what Jim Bullard and Charlie Evans and a few others were 
saying—I believe the problem we’re trying to solve today is not only what to do in future ELB 
episodes, but also how to move underlying inflation back up to target in the near term after a 
long period of misses in order to re-anchor expectations and strengthen our buffer. 
One approach that I would want to explore and might be much simpler to communicate 
would simply be to shift up our target range for a limited number of years with a review to 
follow. So, for instance, we could just target inflation in the range of 2 to 2½ percent over the 
next five years to make up for the past five years when inflation has been in the range of 1½ to 

2 percent, and we could commit to review that performance again after five years. This could be 
seen as a stronger interpretation of symmetry or a field test of a “soft” form of average inflation 
targeting. It would help the Committee gently nudge inflation above 2 percent to provide the 
public some experience of over 2 percent inflation. Then, at the subsequent review, the 
Committee would have some experience with inflation running a bit above target as a basis for 
assessing the costs and benefits of possibly moving the inflation target to the top of the new 
range in a more opportunistic approach. 
However we approach it, I think it would be a mistake not to at least give some serious 
thought to a modest increase in our inflation target to partially regain some of the lost 
conventional policy space associated with the decline in the real equilibrium rate, which looks to 
be long lived. The Eberly, Stock, and Wright paper did a nice job illustrating the advantages of 
starting from a slightly higher level of inflation. 
Third, I agree with Eric and others that we need to assess the implications for financial 
stability as an integral part of this review. The changes to monetary policy we’re contemplating 
suggest a low-for-long environment as a feature, not a bug, of the “new normal.” It has 
implications for reach-for-yield behavior as well as the buildup of debt. We had a good 
conversation last night at the Joint Supervision Committee on why bank capital levels that were 
calibrated on pre-crisis historical data may not be adequate in today’s circumstances. My own 
inclination would be to get serious about macroprudential policy rather than overburden our 
monetary policy, but it’s important to have analysis to make that assessment. 
Fourth and finally, it’s critical as part of our framework review to take the 
communications challenge note less seriously than the modeling challenge. I thought it was 
hugely valuable to engage in our Fed Listens discussions around the country and to invite panels 

of non-economist experts to the Chicago conference. One of the biggest “takeaways” was that 
we tend to orient our communications to an exceptionally narrow slice of the American public. 
Yet the models presented today demonstrate that the efficacy of the approaches hinges 
importantly on consistent expectations not only among financial market participants, but also 
among wage and price setters as well as savers and consumers. 
Given the centrality of expectations and questions about how they’re formed, it would 
seem important to use communications research tools, such as surveys and focus groups, no less 
than econometric modeling. As Rob Kaplan noted, many Americans are unlikely to find it 
intuitively obvious that inflation below 2 percent is a problem. So we’ll need to put some special 
effort into our communications. Similar to the Bank of England, we may find it may be 
beneficial to target different kinds of communications to different audiences. Because the 
hallmark of Fed Listens has been to engage with a much broader set of stakeholders, I would 
hope that we would similarly seek to ensure that any solution that we adopt seeks to 
communicate more effectively with that broader set of stakeholders. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. A lot has already been said, and I 
share what many have said—that the briefings and the memos have been very helpful to frame a 
very good discussion. 
I guess I go back to something I learned from President Evans early in my tenure eight 
years ago, and that is, not to answer the questions in the memo. [Laughter] In your remarks 
today, and I wholeheartedly agree with President Evans’s remarks that he started this go-round 
with, but I notice that you didn’t answerthe questions either, so I won’t. 

So first is, I think, we do want to go back to the very basic issue, and I go back to the 
great success in central banking of the past 30 or more years in anchoring inflation expectations. 
This was a huge undertaking. Central banks around the world—including the Federal Reserve, 
but many others, too—had allowed inflation to run wild and had inflation expectations that had 
become unmoored, and it was an enormous effort to get low and anchored inflation expectations. 
It served us incredibly well, both in terms of stabilizing inflation and also—as we all, or 
many of us, experienced during the recession and the aftermath of that—that the well-anchored 
inflation expectations gave us more policy space to respond aggressively with both conventional 
and unconventional monetary policy tools to address the very high unemployment and the 
weakness in the economy without concerns of inflation taking off. So, again, getting 
maintaining anchored inflation expectations, I think, is really important. 
I think that the issue, of course, with the lower bound and the very low r* is that inflation 
expectations could get anchored at too low a level or actually get into a situation where they keep 
moving down over time, which is what we’ve seen, as President Bullard and Governor Brainard 
and others have mentioned, in examples of Japan and the euro area that have seen a huge 
downward shift in inflation expectations, which then has a negative effect of reducing policy 
space to respond to the next recession. 
So I think, again, the goal here really is about anchoring inflation expectations, and that 
brings up a number of—I think, to me—important issues. One is, and I think the memo did a 
great job—one of the memos covered this well, which is this uncertainty about r*. We had a 
good discussion of this in New York. 
If you actually told me with certainty that r* was 0.5 percent, and it would be 0.5 for the 
rest of our lifetimes, I think that the answer that we could address a reasonably sized or a typical 

recession using very aggressive conventional policy actions, unconventional policy actions, and 
forward guidance is probably the right answer for a number of people, to say we just need to use 
our tools more aggressively, more effectively. I think that’s true, and we could probably get 
through the situation reasonably well, and that’s kind of what some of these simulations were 
showing. 
At the same time, there’s a great deal of uncertainty about r*. So, say, if you asked me 
10 years ago what r* was, I would have told you 2½ percent. And today we’re saying it’s ½. So 
say that, in the next recession—which I hope is not for another 10 years—we’re actually in a 
situation in which r* is not ½ percent but is actually minus ½ or even lower. In that 
circumstance, using the same simulations, we just don’t have nearly as much firepower, either 
conventionally—and, obviously, we could use unconventional policies, balance sheet policies, 
too. 
So, again, when I think about what the future may hold, this asymmetry regarding the 
effects of r* and the uncertainty about r* tell you that if r* comes in higher, as Governor 
Bowman suggested it might, that’s good. That would make our lives easier, and it would be 
better for the economy. But the uncertainty that implies that r* could be lower is what tells me 
that those are circumstances where we do need to think seriously about how to create the best 
framework to maximize the probability of success. 
So that gets to a couple of the other issues around this, and one is commitment. People 
brought up time inconsistency, commitment issues. If you go back to the debate about inflation 
targeting, this is what the debate was about then. I think, President Bullard, you mentioned that. 
A lot of people weren’t convinced that central banks could get inflation expectations anchored 
well. So what did it do? What do I think are important components of that? One is to have a 

pretty clear objective of what you’re trying to achieve. Communicate that well, and also walk 
the talk in terms of outcomes, as President Evans and others highlighted. 
I don’t think the commitment issues associated with some of the strategies that we’re 
talking about in the memos are fundamentally that different from these commitment issues that 
were associated with its having a low inflation target. If we could find ways to agree on a 
strategy—whether it’s a makeup strategy or average inflation target or whatever it is—and we 
also commit to carry that strategy out in terms of our actions, I think that that’s not something 
that we should see as “Because it’s hard, we can’t do it.” We should actually take a lesson from 
history and from central bankers around the world, which is, if you commit to it and you stick to 
it, then you actually can achieve that and get the benefits from that. 
In terms of some of the other issues around this and having a range versus a point 
target—and President Rosengren gave a good example of that—I do worry about the 
fundamental asymmetry of the zero lower bound or the effective lower bound, and that is that 
inflation is more likely to be under the target than above the target, at least under some 
circumstances. If I can do this from memory, the way that President Rosengren described it was, 
inflation is, on average, 2 percent over the cycle, and then behind that is a concept that there’s a 
range of inflation that sometimes in a recession it might be below, and then during an extended 
expansion it might be above. I think that the range supports this notion, but I don’t want the 
range to replace the target, because the target is really what we want to see over the cycle, over 
the medium term, but the range may help people understand or help ourselves understand that. 
So I think there’s a way to connect these ideas in a constructive way. 
The last point I’d like to make is, a lot of the discussion in the memos and in this room 
focuses on makeup strategies around inflation, and that’s understandable, because we’ve been 

reminded many times that we’ve been missing our inflation target. But if you actually go back to 
what the makeup strategies were about, they weren’t really about inflation. They were about 
adding monetary stimulus to boost economic growth and to bring the unemployment rate down. 
And then, of course, the side effect of that would be to bring inflation back up. And I think 
we’re losing that thread a little bit, and I own some of this. And while this talk is about price-
level targeting, average inflation targeting, we kind of get caught in that. 
But at the end of the day, what we’re talking about with strategies is that strategies or 
approaches are adding more stimulus during the downturn and recovery to add more job growth 
and bring unemployment down and, through that, to bring inflation back to our target and 
achieve this well-anchored inflation expectation. So maybe that’s one thing about how we talk 
about it that’s leading us a little bit astray, because we’re focused so much on inflation that 
maybe we lose track of—really, it’s about boosting demand and boosting the economy during a 
downturn to achieve our goals. 
And how we change that conversation? In my own talking about it, I’ve started talking 
about, you’re trying to boost expected output and expected inflation, not just one or the other. 
And, the one thing that I think we also shouldn’t give up on, and maybe it’s a response to 
President Kashkari, is, I agree with you completely that we should do everything with our tools, 
and that will get us a long way, but I think it’s even more effective if a strategy overlay that 
we’ve all agreed on beforehand explains that we expect inflation to run above target during the 
latter part of an expansion. We expect that this is what we’re trying to achieve, so that when we 
then use all of our tools, it’s not like we’re trying to explain it now. It’s actually coherent and 
consistent with the strategy we laid out. I think that’s when it works the best, because when the 

strategy, the decisions, the statements, the press conferences, all of those are aligned is when 
we’re at our most effective. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Let me agree with others in thanking the staff for a 
really excellent, thought-provoking set of memos and everyone around the table for another 
terrific discussion. I’ll get to the specific questions for the meeting, but I want to begin with a 
couple of comments on the broader context. 
I want to stress that I think the bulk of our work still lies ahead of us on this, and I think 
it’s important for us to continue to exercise some patience in reaching conclusions and taking 
positions on the issues that we are discussing. And, in that spirit, I want to echo what Governor 
Clarida said earlier, which is that we’re not working to a January conclusion here. We’ll 
continue the process as long as is appropriate until our work is done. Sometime around the 
middle of next year is a good placeholder for that. 
I just think we will make better decisions and get better answers if we give ideas time to 
breathe, time to be carefully considered and to be weighed against alternative or competing 
ideas. I would point to, for example, the discussions about shrinking the balance sheet, when we 
went through a series of meetings, and ideas rose and fell during that process. Things like that 
will hopefully again happen here. 
These are complex, subtle questions. There is no roadmap. If anything, we are creating a 
roadmap for other central banks to follow. So I, too, want to say I found the July meeting 
tremendously enlightening, and, like Governor Clarida, I went back and reread the transcript, 
although I won’t tell you I did it in 15 minutes, as he did. [Laughter] 
MR. CLARIDA. Speed-reading. 

CHAIR POWELL. It took a lot longer than that. [Laughter] Regarding that discussion, 
many pointed out that our current framework would have allowed the Committee to conduct 
policy more aggressively, deploying more accommodation earlier. But, of course, in real time, 
we were in uncharted waters. Like others, we systematically were overly optimistic about the 
recovery. Many on the Committee were deeply concerned about high inflation coming back, 
with monetary aggregates soaring, and also about the possible unforeseen consequences of QE. 
Those were not problems with the framework. Now, knowing more about the efficacy, 
costs, and risks of our tools, I believe we would act more aggressively and earlier in the face of a 
serious downturn without regard to any framework changes. So when the time comes to act, we 
are likely to run out of room to cut rates very quickly and probably well short of what the 
economy needs. So, with that, we’ll turn to our unconventional tools, including forward 
guidance and asset purchases, and much will depend on the efficacy of the tools. 
Forward guidance was important in easing financial conditions in the post-crisis era 
precisely because the market priced in a higher rate path than the Committee intended. It seems 
to me unlikely, though, now, that the market will systematically underpredict accommodation the 
next time. The stunning decline over the intermeeting period in global long-term rates—
although it was quickly reversed, in part—suggests to me that markets may be just as likely to 
get ahead of the FOMC as fall behind. Thus, our main role may be in clarifying our intentions 
and then following through. 
As for asset purchases, term premiums are already very low—in fact, negative. By the 
time our policy rate reaches the ELB and the economy has weakened, term premiums would 
likely be deeply negative already. The incremental efficacy of large-scale asset purchases and 

guidance in that setting is not entirely clear, as the recent experience of some foreign central 
banks may indicate. 
The decline in r* further complicates the problem. We may not be able to identify or 
create tools that will fully offset that policy loss. And all of that suggests that we need to be 
scratching and clawing now for every scrap of policy space, because in a serious downturn we 
are going to need it. It underscores the high stakes associated with this exercise. 
Now, I take the point of the makeup strategy to be to defend and strengthen our main 
tool, which is our policy rate. And that brings me to the three questions. John, like you, I have 
learned not to make a rookie mistake and answer the questions. But Dave Skidmore alerted me 
to the difference between answering questions and addressing them [laughter], so I will now 
address the three questions. 
First, as to the costs and benefits of makeup strategies, I see the risks in the current 
environment as fundamentally asymmetric. We face a high risk of large welfare losses if we get 
stuck at the ELB for an extended period. A downward slide in inflation expectations would, 
therefore, entail high costs. The potential costs in the other tail are real, but, in my view, they are 
more remote and, even if realized, would be more manageable and smaller. 
The potential benefit of some form of makeup strategy would be to make it less likely 
that we’d start down the disinflationary path in the first place. So I think there is a question that 
underlies all of this, which for me really is whether the United States faces an inflation problem 
that needs to be addressed in some kind of fundamental way, perhaps through framework 
changes, perhaps through more aggressive use of our tools. 
So if I posit a world of inflation expectations that are safely and securely anchored at 
1.8 percent, let’s say, with symmetric risks, I would be hard pressed to identify big welfare losses 

from that or large gains from nudging the anchor up to 2 percent. All of the arguments about the 
imprecision with which we measure, let alone manage, inflation would be convincing in that 
case. The indifference of the public to a couple of tenths of inflation—indeed, their confusion as 
to why those strange people at the Fed would even care—would be sensible. But, to me, that 
hypothetical does not capture the situation in which we find ourselves. 
Instead, we see a world in which first Japan and now the EU reacted complacently to 
early signs of low inflation. In fact, the historical record is dotted with dismissive comments by 
BOJ and ECB policymakers about low inflation. By the time they took the issue seriously, it 
was too late. Now, we are not the EU, and we’re not Japan. While longer-term expectations in 
the United States seem well anchored somewhere within a few tenths of 2 percent, I think we 
should view ourselves as now, or soon enough, facing the test that the ECB and the BOJ seem to 
have failed. We have a number of factors in our favor relative to those jurisdictions. We have a 
younger, faster-growing population; higher productivity; more flexible labor markets; and, 
overall, a more dynamic economy. But many of those factors are waning. 
I suspect we will eventually find that we are not exempt from the disinflationary forces 
we see around the world. In fact, in the worst case, we could be one downturn away from seeing 
further downward pressure on inflation expectations, a road that others have found it hard to exit. 
Even if we think the reckoning is further off, I think basic risk-management principles argue for 
doing what we can now to support inflation falling symmetrically around 2 percent and not close 
to or just below 2 percent. And I sense pretty broad agreement, by the way, on a lot of that. 
So I think the memos do a good job of explaining why makeup strategies deserve serious 
consideration and of describing features and potential tradeoffs in such strategies. The main 
“takeaway” for me, though, is not that any one particular structure or, perhaps, any of these 

complex structures should be the winner, but, really, that there is a reasonable chance that we 
will be able to identify and implement changes based on the insights behind makeup strategies 
that lead to improved outcomes. 
This brings me to the second question about alternative policies to help the Committee 
achieve its objectives. Some ideas that appeal to me at this point as worthy of consideration 
would include a reference in the consensus statement to the effective lower bound as well as to 
the centrality of inflation expectations and their connection to realized inflation. We might 
identify a period over which we task ourselves to achieve inflation averaging 2 percent—the 
business cycle, for example. We might clarify what we mean by maximum employment. And I 
can imagine, for example, a combination of all of those ideas—a range in which inflation is 
expected to run over the course of the business cycle, averaging 2 percent or something like that. 
So I think there is a lot of common ground around the table if you think about it that way. 
The question of symmetry in any makeup effort is an interesting one. I believe that low 
inflation is now and likely to remain the problem of this era. And in such an era, an asymmetric 
response to low versus high inflation may be necessary in order to achieve broadly symmetric 
outcomes. In other words, we must respond asymmetrically to achieve symmetry. Thus, I could 
see pursuing symmetric outcomes through an asymmetric approach, one that makes up for 
inflation shortfalls but does not promise to deliberately hold inflation below target in a downturn 
to make up for a period of high inflation that happened in a previous expansion. 
Third, and finally, is the question of robustness. As always, new ideas need to be tested 
by exposure to a broad range of models and assumptions about the economy. At the same time, I 
think we should focus our attention on the problem we actually face and are likely to continue to 

face for the foreseeable future: a “new normal” of low inflation, low growth, and low interest 
rates. 
Just going back to the earlier discussion, the staff—Andrea, I think, pointed out that the 
FRB/US model has a flat Phillips curve and also, effectively, a flat IS curve, low sensitivity of 
output to interest rates. The Phillips curve case—I think we’ve talked about it a lot—is quite 
straightforward. I guess I would like to see more thought given to models that have a more 
reactive IS curve in a way. Just because I think we know that that’s an FRB/US model feature 
that we’ve seen in many ways through the years, it just doesn’t react at all to changes in interest 
rates, or it reacts very little. 
So my sense is that there are other models, and I think we use them in one of the memos. 
I will leave it at that for now, and I look forward to our future discussions. And, again, thank 
you for a terrific discussion. With that, we move straight into “Financial Developments and 
Open Market Operations.” And I’ll turn it over to you, Lorie. 
MS. LOGAN.
3 Thank you. I’ll be referring to the “Material for Briefing on 
Financial Developments and Open Market Operations.” Global financial markets 
were quite volatile over the intermeeting period, with market participants reacting to 
incoming information about U.S.–China trade tensions and the global growth outlook 
during two distinct periods. In the weeks following the July FOMC meeting, as 
shown in the left-hand column of panel 1, U.S. yields declined sharply and risk asset 
prices fell amid a spate of largely negative news and seasonally thinner liquidity. As 
shown in the next column, these price moves reversed to some degree in September 
as developments on trade and economic data turned more positive. On net, Treasury 
yields remained substantially lower, while the S&P 500 index and corporate credit 
spreads reversed most or all of their earlier losses to end the period little changed. 
As outlined in panel 2, I’ll explore some of the drivers behind the large moves in 
Treasury yields and then contrast them with the more modest response in risk assets. 
Then I’ll turn to expectations regarding Committee policy. 
Trade-related developments were the primary catalyst for cross-asset price action 
over the period. In addition to the introduction of new tariffs from both the United 
States and China, the renminbi depreciated sharply, breaking through the 
 
3 The materials used by Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 3). 

psychologically important level of 7 RMB per dollar and leading the Administration 
to declare China a currency manipulator. The escalating trade tensions in August 
heightened concerns that the uncertainties regarding trade would persist, raising risks 
to the global economic outlook. As shown in panel 3, the percent of survey 
respondents expecting more negative outcomes rose sharply in the September survey, 
with a large majority expecting the pending tariff hikes to proceed or rise even 
further. In contrast, in the June and July surveys, most expected trade relations to 
stabilize or a comprehensive trade deal to be reached, an outcome seen as very 
unlikely now. 
Beyond trade, market participants were also focused in August on increasing risks 
around a broader slowing in global real growth, especially in light of disappointing 
data in Europe. Against this backdrop, heightened expectations that the ECB would 
cut its deposit rate and restart asset purchases drove the yield on 30-year German 
bunds into negative territory. 
During this period, U.S. Treasury yields fell sharply, most notably at long-dated 
tenors. The 30-year Treasury yield declined around 60 basis points from the July 
meeting to September 3, an extraordinary move for such a short period of time. As 
shown in panel 4, respondents to the Desk surveys attribute most of this move to 
declines in expectations of the real policy rate and the term premium and, to a lesser 
degree, a change in inflation expectations. This picture is a bit different from some 
model-based measures, which attributed more of the move to the term premium. 
When asked to rate the importance of factors driving the decline in the 30-year 
yield, the median survey respondent assigned the highest average rating, shown by 
the red diamonds in panel 5, to changes in, and risks around, the foreign and U.S. 
growth outlooks. These factors, if seen as long lasting, could be consistent with an 
expectation for lower real policy rates far into the future. Nonetheless, it’s perhaps 
puzzling that other factors associated with lower real rates are not highly rated, such 
as a lower expected longer-run r* or a high frequency of policy rates at the lower 
bound. 
It may be that market participants believe at least part of the growth factors, 
particularly emanating from abroad, affected U.S. rates through the term premium. 
Consistent with this story, respondents also give relatively high ratings to factors 
normally associated with term premiums, such as the relative value of U.S. Treasury 
securities to foreign bonds and safe-haven flows. Desk contacts widely pointed to the 
increased amount of global negative-yielding debt as contributing to a downward 
pressure on U.S. yields. Many suggested that investor aversion to negative rates 
results in a search for yield that is more significant than in low but positive rate 
environments. Panel 6 shows this relationship between the market value of global 
negative-yielding debt and the 30-year Treasury yield, which is shown on an inverted 
scale, a chart that was circulated widely by market commentators. 
Although survey respondents assign secondary importance to changes in expected 
inflation in explaining the decline in the 30-year yield, they don’t discount inflation 

entirely. Five-year, five-year-forward measures of U.S. inflation compensation, 
shown as the dark blue line in panel 7, fell by up to 20 basis points in August and 
touched fresh lows since 2016. In the euro area, far-forward inflation compensation, 
shown as the light blue line, is less than 20 basis points above its all-time lows. 
While the ECB announced a comprehensive package of easing measures at its 
meeting last week, issuer-limit constraints on the asset purchase program and 
perceived divisions within the Governing Council fed growing skepticism that the 
policies would be effective in boosting inflation. 
Overall, expectations of easier monetary policy supported demand for risk assets, 
although several market participants questioned whether there was a disconnect with 
the sharp decline in yields. However, looking below the surface of the S&P 500 
index reveals some trends consistent with the concerns prevalent in rate markets. 
Panel 8 shows that equity performance for defensive firms—those traditionally less 
negatively affected by an economic slowdown—outpaced those of cyclical firms in 
August, continuing the trend seen since May. There was also an outperformance of 
large firms—those more capable of weathering a downturn—over small firms. 
The market tone generally turned more positive in September in response to 
modestly better news related to a range of ongoing risk factors, including the 
resumption of U.S.–China trade negotiations and the possibility of a “mini deal.” In 
equity markets, defensive positioning partly unwound, including a notable hedge fund 
rotation out of what had been described as a crowded position. U.S. Treasury yields 
recovered as some better-than-expected economic data releases in the United States 
and Europe also slightly reduced concerns over global growth. Diminished 
expectations that the ECB will ease further into negative-rate territory may have 
contributed to higher Treasury yields. Following this shift in sentiment, the S&P 500 
index and corporate credit spreads recovered and are, on net, little changed. 
So how have respondents’ U.S. monetary policy outlooks evolved amid these 
developments? Even after the partial rebound in September, market expectations are 
that the Committee will ease monetary policy further at this meeting. Regarding 
panel 9, all respondents from the Desk surveys expect a 25 basis point decrease in the 
target range. On average, they assign about an 80 percent probability to this outcome, 
with a 14 percent probability for a 50 basis point cut and a 6 percent probability for 
no change. 
As shown in panel 10, looking beyond September, most survey respondents 
expect another 25 basis point cut by year-end. However, respondents who expect 
another cut are really divided on whether this move would occur in October or 
December. 
Further out, while the median of respondents’ modal forecasts for end-2020 point 
to no rate cuts next year, individual forecasts are much more dispersed, with nearly 
one-half of respondents expecting at least one additional 25 basis point cut in 2020 
and about one-fourth expecting two or more cuts. 

The wide range of expectations for monetary policy in 2020 could be a reflection 
of dispersed views about the global growth outlook and its implications for policy. 
As shown in panel 11, there is an increasingly wide range of probabilities that survey 
respondents place on the odds of the U.S. and global economies being in a recession 
in six months. 
Market participants remain attentive to a range of global risk factors that could 
affect the policy rate path, which are summarized in panel 12. Trade tensions 
between the United States and China and the related economic effects remain front 
and center, as does the health of the Chinese economy. Developments in Europe and 
the outlook for growth and monetary policy—and any limits on its effectiveness—are 
also a key focus. Investors also remain focused on political tensions, including in 
Hong Kong and developments related to Brexit. Now, we would also add escalating 
geopolitical tension in the Middle East to this list following attacks on Saudi oil 
facilities over the weekend. While oil prices, on net, are higher by around 7 percent, 
the cross-asset effect has been quite limited. In summary, although markets have 
calmed in recent weeks after the tumult of August, it feels that risks could quickly 
escalate again and volatility return. 
I’ll turn now to money markets and operations, summarized in panel 13 of your 
third exhibit. Money market conditions were mostly stable over the period, and the 
reduction in the interest on excess reserves rate (IOER rate) following the July FOMC 
meeting fully passed through to money market rates. Nonetheless, as I discussed this 
morning, we observed significant volatility yesterday and this morning as a result of 
large tax payments and Treasury settlements. 
Before yesterday, the effective federal funds rate had averaged 2.13 percent, 3 
basis points above IOER, over the intermeeting period, with the spread to IOER 
slightly narrower than we had expected going into the period, as shown in panel 14. 
Two factors likely contributed to this. First, as shown in panel 15, government and 
prime money market funds received large inflows. Much of this new cash was 
invested into repo, putting downward pressure on money market rates. Second, the 
increase in Treasury bill issuance after the resolution of the debt ceiling impasse was 
more gradual than we expected, resulting in less upward pressure on rates. 
Despite the softness over most of the period, market participants anticipated 
increases in the effective federal funds rate relative to the IOER rate in the coming 
months. As shown in panel 16, reserve levels are projected to decline markedly over 
the next four months, falling about $300 billion to below $1.2 trillion as the Treasury 
rebuilds the TGA. These declines will be associated with periods of high net 
Treasury settlements and corporate tax payment flows, particularly in the last two 
weeks of September and again in the latter half of December. These factors, 
combined with financial institutions’ typical year-end balance sheet management, had 
led most market participants to predict a widening in the effective federal funds rate 
and IOER spread. 

This morning, however, we saw much larger increases in money market rates, as 
well as a higher degree of dispersion in traded rates, than anyone had anticipated. 
The SOFR “printed” at 2.43 percent yesterday, and the 75th and 99th percentiles of 
SOFR transactions were at 2.55 and 4.60 percent, respectively. 
So what happened? It appears that in an environment of uncertainty about 
potential outflows related to the corporate tax payment date, lenders were not able to 
increase their repo lending sufficiently to meet the increased dealer demand for 
funding. Indeed, G-SIBs, which had significant capacity to increase lending into repo 
markets, did not do so. In addition, some of these banks maintained reserve levels 
significantly above the lowest comfortable level of reserves that they reported in the 
survey. Although we have less data on money market mutual funds, we also 
understand that they held back some liquidity as well in order to cushion against 
potential outflows. 
Highly elevated repo rates passed through to rates in unsecured markets. FHLBs 
maintained some liquidity in reserve in anticipation of higher advance demand, and 
they also shifted funds into repo, which was yielding a higher rate. As shown in 
panel 17 and as noted this morning, the effective federal funds rate “printed” at 
2.25 percent, 11 basis points higher than the previous day. Though not shown—the 
distribution is cut off just to focus on the rate at which the median printed—the trades 
were very wide and highly skewed to the right. 
Amid these pressures, market participants also appeared to expect some lasting 
elevation in rates. As shown in panel 18, September and October federal funds 
futures—which settle to a daily average over the calendar month—rose yesterday by 
roughly 2 basis points, even as later-dated contracts declined. The increases in the 
front months may reflect expectations for higher average rates for the remainder of 
September or further bouts of volatility around midmonth or month-end. 
Market participants also expect ongoing elevation in repo rates. Futures 
contracts, presented in panel 19 of your fourth exhibit, suggested the SOFR–effective 
federal funds rate spread was expected to widen to roughly 9 basis points on average. 
This morning, money market rates opened again at high levels. Interdealer 
trading in repo markets occurred at rates over 8 percent, and federal funds were 
quoted as high as 5 percent. As we discussed this morning, the Desk announced an 
overnight repurchase operation at 9:10 of up to $75 billion. We received $53 billion 
in bids and accepted all of the propositions. There were $41 billion in awards against 
Treasury security collateral at an average rate of 2.48 percent and $12 billion in 
awards against MBS collateral at a rate of 2.80 percent. 
The operations were perceived by market participants as successful, and rates fell 
after the announcement and into the morning, as shown in panel 20. Rates in secured 
markets were trading around 2½ percent after the operation. The range on the federal 
funds rate is still wide, and trades are going through between 2 and 2½ percent. We 
won’t have certainty about where the effective federal funds rate will “print” until 

tomorrow, though we’ll have a better sense of this when the brokered data come in 
later this evening. 
In going forward, we will monitor and assess how repo rates might evolve later in 
the year and how banks and other money market participants will be managing their 
liquidity. 
As shown in panel 21, the third Senior Financial Officer Survey, completed in 
August, indicated that the aggregate estimate of the lowest comfortable level of 
reserves, or LCLOR, for the banking system declined to about $800 billion, from 
$860 billion in the February Senior Financial Officer Survey. Respondents that 
reduced their reported LCLORs cited increased efficiency in managing their payment 
and deposit flows. Nevertheless, as I noted before, holdings of reserve balances 
remain highly concentrated among a few large banks. How money markets respond 
to days with high deposit flows or falling reserves will likely depend on how these 
banks react. The top three reserve holders, all U.S. G-SIBs, maintain $150 billion in 
surplus reserves over their respective lowest comfortable level of reserves. Should 
these banks continue to maintain high balances, particularly on these high payment 
demand days, other banks may again find they need to bid up rates to attract short-
term funding. 
In light of market volatility yesterday and this morning, market participants 
expect that pressures could reemerge and have discussed potential responses that the 
FOMC could consider. Nearly all expect an additional temporary open market 
operation tomorrow as well as around peak pressure dates, including September 
quarter-end. Many market participants now expect a technical adjustment to be 
implemented at this meeting. 
This week’s events may also lead some market participants to update their 
assessments of the long-run level of reserves. In the Desk survey conducted in early 
September, market participants’ estimates of the lowest weekly average level of 
reserves remain centered close to $1.2 trillion, as shown in panel 22. Survey 
respondents have noted that their estimates incorporate a buffer that would absorb 
variations in reserves due to changes in nonreserve liabilities. Consequently, we 
interpret the $1.2 trillion estimate as an average around which reserves may fluctuate 
rather than a minimum. 
Consistent with their projections of reserves, survey respondents’ assessments of 
when the SOMA portfolio will steadily grow again have shifted earlier relative to 
when respondents were last asked this question in March, as shown in panel 23. The 
median respondent expects the SOMA portfolio to begin growing sometime in the 
first quarter of 2020. 
Finally, I have three operational updates to note, as outlined in panel 24. First, the 
Desk continued to reinvest maturing proceeds from MBS above $20 billion into new 
MBS. On the basis of current market rates and prepayment forecasts, we expect to 

reinvest much larger amounts for a longer period of time compared with the estimates 
we showed earlier this year. 
Second, having concluded the first Treasury reinvestment purchase period last 
week, we can report that purchases of Treasury securities across maturity sectors have 
gone smoothly. Market participants have not attributed changes in market prices or 
liquidity conditions to these purchases. 
Third, the Desk completed the annual investment review of the foreign currency 
reserves held in the SOMA, which I described in a memo sent to the Committee in 
advance of this meeting. Compared with the prior investment period, there was one 
recommended risk parameter change—to lower the minimum cash requirement for 
both the euro and yen portfolios. 
With respect to the euro portfolio, based on feedback from the Foreign Currency 
Subcommittee, the Desk recommends maintaining the conditional value at risk at 
3 percent, the same level as last year. And, with respect to the yen portfolio, the Desk 
recommends maintaining the current strategy by continuing to place proceeds from 
securities holdings in a deposit account with the Bank of Japan, which is at an above-
market interest rate of 0 percent. We expect to begin rebalancing to the new target 
asset allocation for the euro portfolio over the next few months. 
Finally, as summarized in the appendix, the Bank of England drew down on the 
dollar swap line for the first time since December 2009. The small draw of 
$20 million was to accommodate a test by one of its counterparties related to Brexit 
preparations. Upcoming small-value operations are also summarized in the appendix. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. We’d be happy to take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Any questions for Lorie or Patricia? President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. I guess the obvious question is, I know surveys suggest first quarter. 
Should we here be debating now or soon deciding to let the balance sheet grow? If our goal is 
abundant reserves, are we really running an abundant-reserves regime unless we make some 
adjustment, more than the stop-gap measures? 
MS. LOGAN. Our assessment of the volatility that we have seen yesterday and this 
morning is related to factors that we see as temporary, so we do expect these conditions to soften 
a bit as the week progresses. 
Our view is that we’re still learning. We are still learning about how these banks, 
particularly those that are holding the excess or the surplus reserves, are going to behave in these 

different market conditions. So I think the full month of September will provide a lot of insight 
on how these money markets could evolve, and that it might be opportune to see how things 
stabilize in October, when reserve levels should be very stable. At that time, it might be a good 
chance to assess what we have learned through the month of September and study that issue. 
CHAIR POWELL. We’ll plan on that. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. Lorie or Patricia, can you help me understand what is 
going on in a bank that would pay 5 percent for federal funds? It seems to me, on the surface, 
that would be alarming. Why would they do it? 
MS. ZOBEL. Some of these banks, particularly on days when they might experience 
large payment outflows, such as tax dates when they mightn’t be able to get funding through 
other sources, say that they would like to maintain a certain amount of reserves to protect against 
this deposit or payment flow volatility. And so, on those days, particularly if it’s just for one 
day, they would pay a high rate in order to maintain that liquidity. If the rates were to persist for 
some time, I think they would rethink that and consider other sources of funding. So some banks 
got caught short. 
MR. KASHKARI. I just think about it in terms of our work on our own liquidity 
provision, and they would rather pay 5 percent in the federal funds markets than come to the Fed, 
which I think is remarkable. Thank you. 
UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER. Stigma. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. It would seem like these factors have become more of an issue 
around quarter-end as well, and it doesn’t seem like corporate payments and end-of-quarter 
events are all that unexpected. So how much more information do we need to know that we’re 

not in abundant reserves and the volatility that we are creating—I’m trying to weigh what the 
benefit is of experimenting and seeing how many times this happens, versus having a bigger 
balance sheet now so that people are more certain that we are not going to have these kinds of 
fluctuations. What are the costs that you see of us deciding to expand our balance sheet earlier? 
MS. LOGAN. I think some of the costs to consider would include that learning period. 
It’s possible that, after this week, banks may start to make adjustments to their liability structure 
based on what they have learned, and that we might get a better read on that in October, after 
going through this. I think the other costs are just associated with the larger policy questions that 
you discussed about the overall size of the balance sheet and whether you’d like to see if these 
market participants or these institutions will change their behavior over time. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Yes. I guess I had the same reaction. Although I think it’s perhaps 
beneficial to observe the quarter-end, I see no benefit, really, in waiting until January when we 
know the year-end has even greater potential for that kind of volatility. So I do think if we are 
going to be doing this in the first quarter, we might as well do it before December. 
MR. KAPLAN. I don’t want to beat on this too much, but if, from a risk–return point of 
view—we’ve been watching this for the past two or three weeks. Back to Eric’s point, what’s 
the benefit of waiting until October? What’s the potential cost of waiting until October? And 
should we, in this meeting, be considering—at least, options? Even if we decide to do nothing, I, 
for one, am not sure I understand why we wouldn’t be considering options in this meeting, unless 
it is just premature. But I just don’t understand the cost–benefit from a risk-management point 
of view. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 

MR. EVANS. If I could ask a related question under the assumption that the Committee 
decides tomorrow to lower the target range for the funds rate—will it be enough, when the IOER 
is also lower, that you expect we would be equally effective in trading in that range as we are 
now—that is, no additional shortcomings—or might they pile on top of each other, which would 
further Rob’s point, I think? 
MS. LOGAN. I think considering a technical adjustment may be something that would 
be useful for the Committee to discuss, and it could be an opportune time to do it at this 
meeting, given the policy discussion that may be taking place. And that would provide some 
extra space if you decided to continue to go through September and October, and I think that 
would be useful. 
In terms of addressing this type of event, I’m not sure that just dropping the IOER rate by 
5 basis points would address these particular circumstances, because this is really being driven 
by pressures in the repo market. I think the technical adjustment could be a useful tool, in light 
of the decline in reserves that we’re seeing over time and the trend. But I’m not sure if that’s 
what would directly affect the pressures we’ll see at the end of the month. 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I think we should be clear that there are two different things 
happening over time. First of all, if you look at the funds rate five days ago, it was actually 
trading relatively soft in the range. And so the Board and the New York Fed have been doing a 
lot of analysis, looking at the ample-reserves framework and how that’s working out on a day-to-
day basis. And what we’ve seen pretty consistently—that is, consistent with what we 
expected—is that the funds rate to IOER spread has been increasing gradually over time as the 
amount of reserves has been going down. 

You see it in terms of both a time trend and also on a day-to-day or week-to-week basis. 
That behavior has been pretty much consistent with our models and past experience. So there’s 
not a big surprise that, as reserves have gotten lower, we’ve seen a big move up in the funds rate 
or other rates relative to the IOER rate. 
I think of this 5 basis point IOER adjustment, if you contemplate that decision, as really 
being in the context of the question, as reserves have gotten lower, do we want just to have more 
cushion in the range above the IOER rate, given what’s happening in the markets? That’s been 
consistent with the decisions we’ve made in the past. 
The issue of the past few days and looking ahead to September 30 and the end of the 
year, these are really big spikes around big payments, the way Lorie and Patricia talked about it, 
that hit the repo markets and then spill into the funds market. So there’s, first of all, a different 
diagnosis of what’s happening on those days and, second, a different kind of answer to how to 
address that. As we’ve seen today, the intervention was pretty powerful in bringing down repo 
rates, as you would expect, and we hope in bringing down the funds rate. 
As we think about these issues, I do think that we want to separate out, one, what’s 
happening to the funds rate as reserves have come down? How do we keep the funds rate in the 
range on average? And then, separately perhaps, we think about this issue of, once in a while, 
maybe once or twice a quarter, doing some intervention to deal with these spikes. But I do think 
the Committee obviously needs to have the conversation more fully. I think my expectation was, 
the end of this month would have been a little bit of a test case to understand how these different 
dimensions play out, but Mother Nature decided to give us a test case yesterday and today. So 
we’re getting a little bit of a preview of that. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard. 

MR. BULLARD. A separate question. I’m looking at exhibit 2, panel 11, “Probability 
of U.S. Recession and Global Recession in Six Months.” The point is to say, these recession 
probabilities have gone up. It says that the global recession is the IMF definition. Could you 
just remind me what the IMF definition is? What are market participants saying here? It does 
look like the distribution has shifted up toward a higher probability of recession because the 
symbol for “greater than or equal to 40” has a bigger dot there. 
MR. GRUBER. I’m not sure I know that we maintain—and I’m going to show in the 
international briefing here our own global recession model in which we characterize the global 
recession as being 55 percent of our trade-weighted foreign GDP being in recession. And so this 
is a similar definition. It is possible that we based ours on the IMF definition. It would be 55 
percent of the global. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay. So it’s not that a global growth rate falls below some levels? 
MR. GRUBER. That’s not our definition for our particular model. But I can’t really 
speak to that. 
MR. KAMIN. I have to say, I’m a little bit surprised. Maybe Lorie can discuss the 
survey itself, because it says “IMF definition for global recession.” I’m a little surprised that the 
dealers being surveyed actually have in their heads a definition of an IMF recession. Is there any 
light you can shed on that? 
MS. LOGAN. Patricia’s looking at the survey. I’m not sure of the answer to that 
question. I think we’ve had it defined that way for a while, and I would agree with you, Steve, 
that it’s not clear to me that the dealers read that when they’re thinking about it as well. So they 
could have different ideas in their own minds when they’re filling out the survey of how to 
interpret that. 

My goal in showing this was just to show the wide dispersion of it. While the median has 
increased, it’s just really dispersed and probably related to different expectations regarding the 
probability of some of these risks becoming reality, as well as different judgments about how to 
evaluate the implications if those events did occur. 
MR. KAMIN. I would just interpret this as the dealers’ and market participants’ 
expectation of a global recession, period, until we can get a little bit more information on that. 
MS. ZOBEL. We do actually give them the definition in the survey. So if they’re 
wondering or curious what the IMF definition is, we provide it, and it is: “A global recession 
can be characterized as a period during which there is a decline in annual per capita real GDP 
backed up by a decline or worsening in one of the following indicators,” and it gives some 
growth indicators. So there you go. 
MR. KAMIN. Sounds fairly general. 
MR. BULLARD. Per capita GDP. 
CHAIR POWELL. Per capita. 
MR. BULLARD. Global per capital GDP. Well, that’s a stringent definition. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions for Lorie? [No response] Seeing none, why don’t 
we move ahead to the review of—oh, sorry. We need a vote to ratify the domestic open market 
operations conducted since the July meeting. Do I have a motion to approve? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. All those in favor? [Chorus of ayes] Thanks very much. So, now, 
that completed, we can move to the review of the “Economic and Financial Situation.” Stacey, 
would you like to start, please? 

MS. TEVLIN.4 Sure. My materials are in the packet called “Material for 
Briefing on the U.S. Outlook.” 
Your first panel starts with the positive news from the retail sector. After sizable 
increases in previous months, the retail sales data that are used to estimate consumer 
spending flattened out in August, as expected, and the three-month change, shown by 
the black line, remains at a robust pace. These data, along with the good news we’ve 
received lately on services spending, point to solid Q3 PCE growth of around 
3 percent. Our estimate of the three-month change in retail sales using the First Data 
card-swipe data the red line, which was below the Census reading earlier in the year, 
has moved up and is now in line with the Census reading in August. The August and 
September readings from the Michigan survey’s measure of consumer sentiment, the 
black line in panel 2, raise some concern. However, the Conference Board’s 
confidence measure through August—the red line—has not shown a similar decline, 
nor have two other measures of consumer sentiment—the Bloomberg comfort index 
and the Rasmussen index, both of which we have through mid-September. So at this 
point, we are projecting continued strength in the household sector, supported by 
plentiful jobs and solid income growth. 
Of course, the picture for business investment and, relatedly, the manufacturing 
sector is decidedly less bright. The black line in panel 3 shows manufacturing IP 
growth, which slowed from a positive 2½ percent in the second half of last year to a 
negative 2½ percent in the first half of this year. Trade developments appear to have 
held down manufacturing growth considerably. The red portions of the bars show an 
estimate of the direct effects of tariffs on manufacturing growth. These estimates are 
derived from a detailed industry-level assessment by my colleagues Aaron Flaaen and 
Justin Pierce. Their estimates aim to capture the negative effects on IP due to higher 
input costs and higher foreign tariffs on our export industries as well as the positive 
effects from the protection afforded to our import-competing industries by our own 
higher tariffs. According to their combined estimates, manufacturing production 
growth was held down about 2 percentage points in the first half of the year by these 
effects, almost all of the decline this year and about half of the slowdown from last 
year’s growth. Importantly, this estimate tries to quantify only the direct effects of 
tariffs. The other half of the slowdown since last year likely reflects mainly the 
weakening global economy and, as Joe will address in his remarks, the imprint of 
trade uncertainty on business investment. Indeed, a good chunk of the weakness in IP 
this year has been in industrial equipment, a key part of investment. 
After having declined in the second quarter, business investment seems likely to 
remain weak in the second half. Two main indicators that we use to project near-term 
equipment spending are shown in panel 4. Both the ISM index and the 12-month 
change in capital goods orders have moved into negative territory, a bad sign for 
second-half investment. Before I leave this page, I should note that manufacturing IP 
 
4 The materials used by Ms. Tevlin are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). 

for August, which was just published this morning, actually moved up 0.5 percent, 
which puts it on a trajectory for positive growth in Q3. 
On the next page, we turn to the outlook for overall real GDP. We estimate that 
GDP rose at a 2.6 percent pace in the first half and is slowing to a 1.7 percent pace 
this half, bringing overall growth for the year to 2.1 percent, a weaker projection than 
in the July Tealbook. Our 2019 projection is also somewhat weaker than the Blue 
Chip Consensus, as we are expecting a little more step-down in the second half than 
many other forecasters are. We have not changed our projection since last week in 
response to either the attacks on Saudi oil infrastructure or the GM strike, because our 
best guess for now is that both of these would have negligible effects on domestic 
activity, on net. 
Beyond this year we have also taken down our forecast some, as you can see from 
the four-quarter changes shown in panel 6. As in recent forecasts, we wrestled this 
round with how to incorporate the recent escalation in trade tensions and global 
growth concerns into our outlook for economic activity. In the end, we took on board 
downward revisions from weaker incoming news on net exports, the outlook for 
foreign growth, the stronger dollar, and analysts’ downgraded expectations about 
long-run future profit growth. But our assumption that trade tensions and uncertainty 
will not rise further—our now standard assumption—and that the dip in foreign 
growth will prove transitory limited our downward revision to the level of GDP to 
just ¼ percent by the end of the medium term. 
This round we also made some modest but noticeable revisions to our aggregate 
supply assumptions. Although we are always reevaluating our supply-side 
assumptions, the aftermath of an annual revision to the NIPA is a particularly good 
time to reassess. This year’s revision didn’t suggest obvious changes, but we still 
took the opportunity to take a fresh look and made a few adjustments. For example, 
as noted in the bullets in panel 7, productivity has been running above our estimate of 
trend productivity in recent years. This is a surprising pattern in a “hot” labor market, 
which typically draws in less productive workers, and suggested that perhaps trend 
productivity—and therefore potential output—is higher than we’ve been assuming. 
The absence of significant upward pressure on wages and prices also suggested the 
economy was perhaps less tight than we’d previously estimated, so we narrowed our 
output gap, shown in panel 8—over and above the narrowing that our modestly 
weaker GDP path implied—and we lowered the natural rate of unemployment to 
4.4 percent. 
The new natural rate is shown by the solid green line in panel 9 on the next page. 
To be clear, none of the indicators we consult on the natural rate could really 
distinguish between 4.4 percent and 4.6 percent, but in this projection we are putting 
a little more weight on measures calling for a less tight economy. Over the medium 
term, both the output gap and the unemployment rate—the black line in panel 9—are 
expected to hold roughly steady at current levels as real GDP growth hovers around 
its rate of potential growth. 

Of course, the natural rate that we regularly show is the one that we think is 
consistent, absent other shocks, with inflation at its underlying trend, or 1.8 percent in 
our projection. Another interesting concept may be the one we showed in a box in 
the July Tealbook—that is, the unemployment rate we judge necessary to move 
inflation up to 2 percent absent other influences, which is shown by the blue line. 
The System staff are currently working on a memo to clarify and explore various 
measures of maximum employment, and you should all be receiving that work before 
the next meeting. 
Last week we received the CPI and PPI data for August. Although the core CPI 
increase was relatively large, based on our translation of the CPI and PPI detail, we 
now estimate that the change in the core PCE price index in August, the dot in panel 
10, will come in lower than previously expected. And, in response to Governor 
Quarles, I am not going to tell you what categories were weak. [Laughter] These 
data, combined with some downward revisions earlier in the year from the NIPA 
annual revisions, now suggest that core PCE inflation will end the year at 1.7 percent, 
the red line in panel 11, rather than 1.9 percent as we had anticipated in July. 
Two other measures of inflation that attempt to strip out idiosyncratic movements 
in inflation are also shown. The Dallas Fed trimmed mean rate continued to run 
closer to 2 percent, at least through July, while the common component from a factor 
model lies in between. We will see what those measures make of the August readings 
received later this month. 
As shown by the black line in panel 12, core PCE inflation is expected to step up 
from 1.7 percent this year to 1.8 percent next year and then hold steady at that level. 
We think that the contribution of resource utilization to inflation over the medium 
term—the red portions of the bars—will be mostly offset by the effect of an 
appreciating dollar, which is captured by the light green portions of the bars. As a 
result, core inflation is expected to remain at our estimate of its underlying trend, the 
gray bars. Our inflation outlook has been revised down modestly, based on our 
assessment that the economy is a bit less tight than we thought in July. Joe will 
continue our presentation. 
MR. GRUBER.
5 Thank you, Stacey. I will be referring to the “Material for 
Briefing on the International Outlook.” 
After stepping down sharply over the course of 2018, foreign economic growth 
appears to have stabilized, but at a subdued below-potential pace and lower than our 
previous forecast. Since July, disappointing data and further increases in uncertainty 
have led us to project an even weaker recovery and, even then, only under the 
assumption of more accommodative policies and no further escalation of trade 
tensions. Our forecast is not out of line with the outside consensus, though it is a bit 
below the admittedly out-of-date July IMF WEO projection. 
 
5 The materials used by Mr. Gruber are appended to this transcript (appendix 5). 

Your next exhibit provides some regional “color.” As shown in the upper-left 
corner, the euro area was a big part of the deceleration in global real growth in 2018, 
although with 2017 growth so far above estimated potential, the black line, some 
slowdown was expected. Growth looks to have weakened a bit further this year as 
Germany flirts with recession and the politically challenged Italian economy remains 
stalled. We expect a modest recovery next year, but only with the support of 
accommodative policies. 
In China, the lower left, growth has also slowed this year, amid heightening 
concern over the effect of continued deleveraging and increased trade tensions. 
However, up to now, the step-down has been largely in line with our estimate for the 
trend decline in potential growth, notwithstanding a bit of a tariff-related shortfall in 
2020. Notably, with further trend deceleration expected, China plays no role in our 
forecasted pickup in total foreign growth next year. 
Instead, our forecast for foreign recovery primarily reflects developments in the 
emerging markets excluding China, where growth in Asia and particularly Latin 
America has been weak but is expected to revert to potential by the end of 2020. In 
Asia, there are signs that a downturn in high-tech production that started in the second 
half of last year is starting to fade. In Latin America, we see growth turning up, but 
we’ve been disappointed before and we could be again. 
On your next slide, while our forecast may be viewed as sluggish but fairly 
benign, we are acutely aware of the downside risks around our outlook. Besides trade 
policy, which I’ll turn to shortly, unrest continues in Hong Kong, and another 
deadline for a Brexit deal is coming up at the end of October. We are assuming that 
another extension that will “kick the can” into next year, but the politics of this are 
particularly tumultuous at present. 
Also, the bombing of a key Saudi oil facility has rattled global oil markets. The 
disruption has at least temporarily affected over half of Saudi production, or about 
6 percent of global production. The price reaction so far has been relatively 
contained, and the lack of movement in far-futures prices, the red line on the right, 
suggests that the market is currently expecting a quick recovery. However, an 
unexpectedly prolonged outage could significantly boost prices. Even after supplies 
are restored, an increase in perceived geopolitical risk could have a persistent effect. 
However, it should also be noted that with the tremendous gain in U.S. production in 
recent years, shown on the right, Saudi Arabia’s presence in global oil markets, 
though still large, has diminished. 
Even absent these risks, the slowdown in the global economy makes recession 
more likely. As shown on the next slide, recession-probability models maintained by 
the Division of International Finance have ticked up, with our model for total foreign 
growth at its highest level since the China scare from late 2015 to early 2016. The 
probability of a recession in the euro area, on the right, is even more elevated, at 
60 percent, and the model has been flashing at least yellow for over a year now. 

The estimated recession probability models place a lot of weight on export orders 
and industrial production, IP, so the high probabilities are not surprising, given that a 
particular feature of the recent growth slowdown has been a persistent slump in 
manufacturing—something that Stacey addressed in the context of the U.S. economy. 
On the next page, manufacturing PMIs in a large number of countries have slid into 
contractionary territory, the black line on the left, even as the services sector, the 
orange line, has held up fairly well. The fallback in global IP, the red line in the 
middle panel, has coincided with a global investment slump, the blue line, with 
investment growth now as weak as it has been in the post-crisis period. The panel on 
the right decomposes global IP growth, with the contribution of capital goods 
production, the blue bars, turning negative even as consumption goods hold up. 
The weakness of global capital spending in part reflects heightened trade policy 
uncertainty, the topic of your next slide. The chart at the top plots what must by now 
be a familiar newspaper-based index of trade policy uncertainty. Identified along the 
x-axis are separate waves of increased uncertainty, with the first wave marking the 
initial 2018 increases in tariffs on steel and aluminum and a slice of imports from 
China and the second wave capturing further increases in China tariffs in May and 
June of this year. Since your July meeting, a third wave of trade tensions erupted as 
China retaliated to earlier U.S. tariffs, prompting the Administration to announce a 
schedule of tariff hikes that would essentially cover all imports from China by 
December. 
The bottom panels highlight analysis done by colleagues in the International 
Finance Division that has attracted a significant amount of attention in the media. 
Their work suggests that elevated trade policy uncertainty has had a meaningful effect 
on foreign and U.S. growth. The charts at the bottom update the publicly released 
results, which included the effects of the first two waves of uncertainty, summed in 
the blue line, with the effect of the third wave of uncertainty since July, included in 
the black line. As you can see, this third wave both deepens and prolongs the drag on 
global growth such that the negative effect does not start to fade until the beginning 
of next year. Of course, in the past couple of weeks or so, there’s been a little 
movement toward a U.S.–China deal, and a significant agreement could lead these 
uncertainty effects to wane faster than shown here. But that is certainly more of a 
hope than an expectation at this point, as evidenced by the survey results that Lorie 
referred to. 
On the next page, in addition to the negative drag coming from trade policy 
uncertainty, the direct negative effects of the tariffs, as discussed by Stacey in regard 
to IP, have been growing as the trade war escalates. As shown on line 4 of the table, 
we estimate that the direct effects of the implemented tariffs will lower U.S. GDP 
about 0.3 percentage point over the next two years mostly as higher prices depress 
consumption and investment. The drag would increase by an additional tenth if all 
the pending tariffs were also to go into effect. 
One way to think about the negative drag from tariffs on U.S. growth is to view 
them as equivalent to a tax increase. As the figure on the right shows, the recent 

hikes have increased customs-reported tariff revenue to about 0.3 percent of GDP, a 
tax that would increase to about 0.7 percent of GDP if all of the proposed tariffs on 
China were to be put in place, surpassing the incidence of tariffs during the Smoot–
Hawley era. For context, at that point, the increase in annual tariff revenue would 
amount to about $100 billion per year, or more than one-third of the estimated 
$270 billion average annual tax cut in 2019 and 2020 coming from the TCJA. 
On the next page, with slowing growth, heightened trade policy uncertainty, 
downside risks mounting, and little sign of any inflation pressure, we expect foreign 
monetary policy to remain accommodative for quite some time. With euro-area 
inflation, the green line on the left, running just above 1 percent, the ECB cut its 
policy rate, the green line in the middle, a further 10 basis points to negative 
½ percent and announced an open-ended resumption of its QE program, buying 
20 billion euros in bonds per month. Notably, the ECB statement included forward 
guidance that rates will remain at their present or lower levels until the inflation 
outlook robustly converges to target within the projection period, similar to the Bank 
of Japan’s standing pledge to hold interest rates near zero until it judges that price 
stability is in sight. Insofar as we don’t see euro-area inflation getting near 2 percent 
for some time, this implies a prolonged period of negative policy rates. 
Weak foreign economic growth and expectations for continued accommodative 
monetary policy abroad have contributed to a stronger dollar. With the staff forecast 
calling for less FOMC policy easing than markets are expecting, our forecast is of 
further dollar appreciation. 
On the next page, the strengthening of the dollar not just since July, but over the 
past year and a half, as well as the downturn in foreign growth and the trade war with 
China, have all weighed on U.S. exports. As shown on the top, exports have declined 
over the past year, a rarity outside recessions, but similar to what we saw in 2015 and 
2016 when the dollar played an even bigger role. 
The bottom-left panel decomposes export growth by the determinants of our 
empirical forecasting model. As shown by the black line, exports fell almost 
6 percent at an annual rate in the second quarter, held back by slower foreign growth, 
the green bars; increasing drag from the dollar, the blue bar; and retaliatory tariffs, the 
gold bar; as well as disruptions in the production and export of Boeing 737’s, the 
purple bar. The effect of trade tensions has been most apparent in exports to China, 
shown on the bottom right. Our assumption that Boeing will resume exporting next 
quarter and that there will be no further retaliatory tariffs underlies our forecast for a 
recovery in export growth. At that, I’ll hand it over to Jonathan. 
MR. GOLDBERG.
6 Thank you. I will be referring to the packet labeled 
“Material for Briefing on Summary of Economic Projections.” To summarize: Your 
projections show little change in your outlook for economic growth, unemployment, 
and inflation. However, almost all of you assessed that a lower path of the federal 
 
6 The materials used by Mr. Goldberg are appended to this transcript (appendix 6). 

funds rate would likely be appropriate to support your economic outlook, with the 
median assessment revised down by 50 basis points for 2019 and 25 basis points for 
2020 and 2021, relative to the June SEP. The projections for the additional year this 
round show that a vast majority of you project that the unemployment rate and the 
federal funds rate in 2022 will be below your estimates of their longer-run levels. 
Almost all of you project that core inflation will be at or modestly above 2 percent in 
2022. A solid majority of you continued to view the risks to your outlook for 
economic activity as adversely skewed, with about one-third of you also judging 
inflation risks as weighted to the downside. 
I will now discuss the projections in greater detail. Regarding exhibit 1, the 
median projection of real GDP growth was unchanged or slightly higher for each year 
in the forecast period, with many of you modestly increasing your projection for this 
year. The median projection of the unemployment rate in 2019 was modestly higher. 
While several of you lowered slightly your projections of the unemployment rate in 
2020, 2021, and in the longer run, the medians of these projections were unchanged. 
The median projections of headline and core inflation were also unchanged for each 
year included in the June SEP. 
For 2022, all of you who submitted longer-run projections expected real GDP 
growth at or slightly below your longer-run estimates. Almost all of you projected 
the unemployment rate in 2022 below its longer-run level, with some of you 
projecting a gap of 50 basis points or more. Some of you projected total inflation 
modestly above 2 percent in 2022, while most of you expected total inflation equal to 
2 percent. The range of inflation projections for 2022 was 1.8 to 2.2 percent. 
Exhibit 2 reports your assessments of the appropriate path of the federal funds 
rate. As indicated by the red lines in the top panel, the median of your projections for 
2019 is 1.88 percent, 50 basis points below the June SEP and consistent with the 
Committee’s reduction in July of the target range for the federal funds rate and one 
further 25 basis point reduction this year. Seven of you assessed that the most likely 
appropriate federal funds rate at the end of 2019 is 1.63 percent, consistent with the 
July reduction in the target range and two additional 25 basis point reductions this 
year, while five of you assessed that the most likely appropriate rate at year-end is 
2.13 percent, consistent with no further change this year to the target range. The 
median assessment for 2020 is 25 basis points below the June SEP and is consistent 
with no change in the target range in 2020 from the 2019 median. The median rises 
to 2.38 percent by 2022, only a bit below the longer-run median of 2.5 percent. The 
range of your projections for the federal funds rate has shifted down and also 
narrowed somewhat for each year included in the June SEP. Muted inflation 
pressures, slower global growth, and weak business fixed investment were cited as 
reasons for downward revisions, as were trade tensions and risk-management 
considerations. 
The green diamonds in exhibit 2 show the median prescription for the federal 
funds rate based on the Taylor (1993) rule, taking as inputs your individual 
projections for inflation, the unemployment gap, and the longer-run federal funds 

rate. Across the forecast horizon, the Taylor (1993) rule prescribes a path of the 
federal funds rate that is notably higher than the vast majority of you anticipate. Most 
of you did not comment on how your policy rate path differs from simple rule 
prescriptions. But your narratives suggest that this gap partly reflects the same 
factors that led you to revise lower your anticipated policy rate path, including 
concerns about inflation expectations and persistently low realized inflation, as well 
as downside risks related to trade policy, foreign growth, and Brexit. 
Exhibit 3 presents your judgments about the uncertainty and risks surrounding 
your projections. As shown in the left panels, most of you continue to view the 
uncertainty about GDP growth and inflation as broadly similar to the average over the 
past 20 years, while your views on uncertainty about the unemployment rate remain 
roughly split between those who see similar levels of uncertainty and those who see 
higher uncertainty. As illustrated in the right panels, most of you continue to judge 
the risks to the outlook for GDP growth as being weighted to the downside and for 
the unemployment rate as weighted to the upside. Most of you—four more than in 
the June SEP—judge the risks to the inflation outlook as broadly balanced, while 
none of you assessed risks to inflation as weighted to the upside. In your narratives, 
some of you mentioned trade tensions, softer domestic business investment, and 
developments abroad as sources of uncertainty or adverse risks to the outlook for 
growth and unemployment. These factors, as well as concerns about undesirably low 
inflation expectations, were seen as sources of downside risk to inflation, while strong 
consumer spending and a more accommodative path for the federal funds rate were 
seen as making risks to the outlook more broadly balanced. The adverse effects of 
trade tensions on aggregate demand were cited as a downside risk to inflation, but the 
possibility that higher tariffs could lead to significant aggregate price pressure was 
also seen as a source of upside risk to inflation. 
I will end my briefing here. We would welcome any questions that you might 
have. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Questions for our briefers? President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. Stacey, you didn’t mention it in your briefing, but in the 
Tealbook, obviously, you covered the labor market, and I think the Tealbook is forecasting job 
growth of 120,000 jobs per month in the second half of this year. With the revisions of the 
payroll numbers, it seems like the labor market has taken a pretty dramatic slowdown relative to 
a year or two years ago. I’m curious about your take on it. 
MS. TEVLIN. I agree that the payroll numbers are definitely slower than they were a 
year ago, and if you took into account the benchmark revisions that we think will probably 

exacerbate that, once those come in in February, I think that is a sign of payroll slowing more 
than we thought. I don’t know if I would call it dramatic. These are still payroll gains that are 
above what we would consider a replacement rate, and they have been consistent, with a flat 
unemployment rate— 
MR. KASHKARI. But marginally above. 
MS. TEVLIN. —at a very low level. So I still think it’s consistent with a solid labor 
market, but you’re right. They definitely go in the direction of slowing payrolls and slower than 
we had expected. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Keeping on the labor market for a moment—President Evans mentioned 
this morning about our Fed Listens event and how it might gather some information for inflation, 
and I’m wondering whether you lowered your u* from 4.6 to 4.4 percent, and you said it’s 
observationally equivalent, almost, but choose among those in the models. But have you all 
thought about doing a systematic review of the input from the Fed Listens events? Because I 
think we’re collecting some pretty good information, and employers are going out and casting a 
much wider net on who they would bring into their employment. And with the productivity 
beating your trend, it would suggest they’re not bringing in less productive workers. They’re 
just bringing in workers they’re less familiar with. And so it might mean in that model, if you 
think about that, that would mean that u*, the frictions, are lower than we might expect. 
I know you haven’t done it yet, but it’s just something to think about, because we have a 
paper being written about we learned from Fed Listens, I think, and there’s been a lot of 

anecdotal information. If we sourced it in, you might judgmentally adjust down your u*. It’s 
just a thought. I don’t know if you’ve ever considered it. 
MS. TEVLIN. I hadn’t actually thought about that before, but it seems certainly 
reasonable. If we’re gathering all of this information, we should take it onboard and think about 
what the implications might be. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thanks, Mr. Chair. A narrow-ish question for Joe. The jump in GDP 
growth in Latin America was pretty striking. What would the drivers of that be, that we would 
expect the trend to turn around, and so materially, in the course of a year? 
MR. KAMIN. That’s the prospective growth in our forecast. 
MR. QUARLES. Yes, exactly, the prospective growth. 
MR. GRUBER. It’s an important part, basically, of the pickup in foreign growth, and 
one that we’ve been kind of cagey about. I mean [laughter], we’ve seen really weak growth in 
Mexico—Q4, Q1, very weak. I mean, rates that we just don’t think are necessarily indicative of 
the true growth capacity of their economy—below 1 percent. 
And so we are expecting some of it just to rebound to what we think might be a more 
normal growth rate. Part of that probably has to do with policy uncertainty regarding the new 
government in Mexico, and as that fades and people get used to it, it’s possible that that could 
move up. 
Brazil has been another case in which it has been particularly weak. The second-quarter 
data were actually stronger. So there are some signs, perhaps, that some of that recovery might 
be in train. But a lot of it is just kind of crossing our fingers and hoping that a recovery is in 
train. 

MR. QUARLES. Okay. [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I really like the new openness. [Laughter] I hear President 
Rosengren, I believe, referred to the framework discussion as “beguiling.” I’m hearing the 
forecast is “cagey.” It’s good. [Laughter] This is better. 
I have a question. Back to the foreign outlook and looking at page 1, “Foreign Growth 
Remains Subdued.” One way to look at this—I mean, you mentioned that growth has been slow, 
but it’s going to improve, and you downgraded the forecast a little bit on foreign GDP. But then 
I’m looking at the alternative scenarios, and I’m struck by the first one, which is “No-Deal 
Brexit.” So the current baseline—and I’m just reading from this—in the outlook is “that 
negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union will extend beyond the 
current deadline of October 31 and result in an orderly Brexit sometime in 2020.” So that’s the 
baseline. 
Then I go to the one on “Escalation of Trade Tensions,” and it says that our current 
baseline is that the CFRs already in place will happen, but none of the announced tariffs will 
actually happen. So I guess my question is, in the baseline that you have here, it basically 
assumes a lot of good news in the way that Brexit goes very smoothly. It assumes that the tariffs 
that have been announced don’t get put in place. 
And, obviously, there are other risks if you go through the global outlook that you could 
be talking about. I guess if you were to think about, instead of the “everything goes completely 
well” modal forecast and were to ask the question “What’s your mean forecast?” or taking into 
account these risks and probabilities around them—I mean, how should I read this chart? Would 

you say that if you were to draw the distribution of outcomes, they’re mostly to the downside, 
say, perhaps to the solid line? Or—I don’t want to lead— 
MR. ROSENGREN. Leading the way. [Laughter] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So I’ll leave it at that. 
MR. GRUBER. So the alternative simulations here are serving the useful purpose, I 
think, of bookending and providing some information on real risks to the forecast. At the same 
time, personally, and I don’t know if I can speak for everyone in the division or at the Board, but 
I think that the assumptions that we’ve made are fairly reasonable, right? 
We have, for Brexit—just starting with Brexit—an assumption that there is no “hard” 
Brexit at the end of October and other things just draw out and persist for a while before they 
come up with some relative solution is a reasonable forecast, and it does result in very low U.K. 
growth. 
So we have a very weak European—I mean, that’s spilling over into our European 
forecast, too. So what’s built into this is continued uncertainty that is holding down growth in 
Europe through this entire period. I think that’s a pretty reasonable outlook for the way things 
might actually go. 
On the trade tensions, it’s hard to say. I think that there has been some progress. I think 
there’s some realization that further escalations at this point could be damaging for the U.S. 
economy. That might constrain the policy a bit. And so I think that it’s reasonable to assume 
that things don’t get much worse but don’t get much better. But, clearly, there’s a lot of 
downside risk there, and that’s why we have no idea. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I’m trying to contrast maybe what we heard from the 
primary dealer survey that Lorie talked about, which sounded more like a base case is 

everything—maybe it won’t get much worse by the things that have already happened or been 
announced or are in place. 
MR. GRUBER. In our forecast, just to be clear, we haven’t actually put in the October 
15 or December 15 hikes, which, from the direct effects from the table in the briefing would take 
another 0.1 off U.S. real GDP growth, basically, and also lower our estimates for China a bit, 
too. I’m comfortable with that assumption at this point, but, you know, the risks are pretty high. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you. 
MR. KAMIN. I would underscore a couple of points that Joe made. The first one is, we 
have a very subdued forecast. As you can see, on page 1 you have the black line, which is our 
forecast below our estimate of potential, the red line, all the way to the end of 2020. So, 
ordinarily, you have a recession or you have a slowdown, and you might expect a bounceback 
where growth would actually be above potential for some time. We do not have that until 2021 
in the forecast. So we’re predicting a pretty subdued recovery. Oh, and actually, that goes 
especially toward our “cagey” Latin America forecast. 
And then the second point I would make is that Brazil had been in the deepest recession 
in its postwar history a few years ago and has yet to achieve sustained growth. And this is an 
economy with vast potential—and, as I say, and always will be. [Laughter] 
So I’m just saying, it’s reaching close to 3 percent over the next year. You know, it’s 
hardly the stuff of fantasy. Mexico, I would say, is even worse. It has been underperforming, in 
terms of per capita income growth and productivity growth, for the past decade and a half. And 
this year, a negative first quarter, a flat second quarter—so, again, a prediction that it would start 
getting up into the 2’s is hardly a wildly optimistic outlook. 

The second point I would make is that, basically, the global economy and trade were in 
very much a similar place in 2015 and 2016. And they bounced back, and we had a very 
strong 2017. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am looking at Stacey Tevlin’s presentation, 
page 1, figure 2, “Measures of Consumer Sentiment.” We’ve got four different measures here. 
They track each other very closely from 2010 to 2017, then they spread out. What are the 
differences? I mean, this is quite concerning if you went with the low one versus the high one. 
So what are the differences between these, and how much signal should I take from one versus 
the other? 
MS. TEVLIN. We usually just show you Michigan and the Conference Board. And 
those are ones with long series that do a decent job of helping to explain consumption, and very 
often they move together. In this particular episode, they are not moving as much together, and 
so I added a couple more on there just to—and also ones that go through mid-September to try to 
add a little bit more information on which one you should take signal from. Generally, the 
Michigan survey we think fits a little bit better in explaining consumption, but, really, it’s hard to 
distinguish between them because they usually move so closely together. 
I would interpret this as, I’m a little concerned about that Michigan number, but the fact 
that all three of the other ones have stayed up gives me some comfort. And so we took down 
consumption growth just a little bit in our projection in response to Michigan, but if the other 
sentiment surveys followed it down, we would certainly be revising. 
MR. BULLARD. Growing dispersion in measures of consumer sentiment—maybe it’s 
just that the situation is more uncertain than it used to be, something like that. 

MS. TEVLIN. Yes. That could be part of it. I haven’t looked back at other episodes 
when these measures were moving differently, so I don’t know for sure. 
MR. BULLARD. Well, if you look at something like 2014 where they’re all on top of 
each other, then you feel pretty good that you’ve got the right idea about consumer sentiment, 
because you measure it four different ways and it comes out the same. 
MS. TEVLIN. I guess it depends on which ones they move toward. If they all move 
down toward Michigan, I’d be less comfortable. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Regarding the international outlook, the policy 
rates of foreign central banks—and I’m reminded, taking on board that we had an important 
discussion this morning about financial instability risks and low interest rates, I’m noticing that 
the ECB has had negative interest rates for a very long period of time. It’s less a question than 
perhaps a request. Maybe we could learn a little bit from a discussion about how, in those 
central banks, they are asking—wondering about financial instability risk. Is it the nature of 
their banking system, capital markets that are definitely different, so that maybe it’s not as much 
a concern? Maybe it’s more of a concern. 
In Germany, of course, the bund is negative, and so I just wonder if we can take out the 
signal from some of that and then understand how the United States is like that or not, and that—
unless you have—well, any insights now would be welcome. 
MR. KAMIN. Yes, sure. That’s a topic we are very focused on. About a year and a half 
ago, we participated in a BIS project looking at the effect of low-for-long interest rates on 
financial stability around the world, but with a focus on advanced economies, particularly Japan 

and Europe. Broadly speaking, we actually did not find a great deal of evidence of two things 
that we were looking for. 
One concern was that prolonged low interest rates would be demonstrably hurting the 
profitability of banks and rendering them weaker in response to future shocks. We did find 
evidence that low rates diminished net interest margins, but it looked like, in a lot of countries, 
banks were able to offset that by basically goosing their fee income and other activities. That 
said, in some markets, particularly ones that were very retail oriented with negative rates, which 
is to say Europe and Japan, we did find some evidence that the low rates were hurting 
profitability. 
On the issue of risk-taking, again, we found relatively limited evidence of that. So if you 
look at both Japan and the euro area over the past half-decade or so, there really has not been a 
particularly large pickup in bank lending that would be evidence of a lot of exuberance. But 
there have been some pockets of increased lending and leverage. So, for example, in France, 
corporates have increased their leverage to an extent such that France increased its 
countercyclical capital buffer. There have been some indications of increased housing prices in 
Germany and particularly Sweden, and also Switzerland—not in the euro area, but a similar 
situation. So there have been pockets of increased exuberance and risk-taking, but not in a very 
generalized extent. So it looks like, unless you have the combination of low rates plus, basically, 
more solid growth, maybe you don’t get that effect. But that’s something we’re definitely on the 
alert for. 
MR. EVANS. I don’t know if there’s something in the Financial Stability Report or 
reports that we get that might pick up on that on a routine basis. You know, quarterly, we have 

this discussion about financial stability, the QS and others, and I don’t know if there is a way to 
fold in updates on what types of factors and discussion— 
MR. KAMIN. We review financial stabilities in 13 different economies twice a year as 
part of our exercise for this international financial stability matrix. And we usually report that to 
you, and it’s in the QS process that we circulate to you. So we’ll make sure that you take note of 
it. 
MS. WILSON. I would just add that the low interest rates and their effect on financial 
stability was actually a focus of our QS this time. So we can send you that. 
MR. EVANS. So do we combine that with some setting for—I guess everybody has the 
same regulatory environment, so we wouldn’t necessarily think about heterogeneity there or not, 
I don’t know. Anyway, it seemed particularly relevant, given the discussion. 
MR. KAMIN. Well, we’re working on this. We’re actually planning to have that 
process contribute a little bit more than we have to the financial stability review that we publish, 
and we’ll be happy to report results to the FOMC. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions for our briefers? [No response] If not, let’s take 
our coffee break, and let’s be back at 3:30, please. 
 [Coffee break] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Welcome back, everyone—we’re fully caffeinated now. 
We’ll begin the economic go-round with President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Economic fundamentals have 
changed very little since the previous FOMC meeting or, for that matter, since the June FOMC 
meeting. If the only information you had was undated Greensheets distributed at the June 

meeting alongside those distributed at the September meeting, it would be hard to know which 
month you were looking at. 
Labor markets were tight in June, with the unemployment rate at 3.7 percent. Labor 
markets remain tight now, with the unemployment rate at 3.7 percent. Core CPI inflation was 
2.1 percent in June. With the release last week, it is now 2.4 percent, noticeably higher. The 
S&P 500 index was trading at 2,900 before the June meeting and is now trading roughly 2 
percent higher. 
The similarity in estimates of major variables to those in June extends to the Tealbook 
forecast. In June, real GDP growth for 2019 was expected to be 2 percent. In the September 
Tealbook, the corresponding forecast is 2.1 percent. 
The unemployment rate at the end of 2019 was forecast to be 3.7 percent. It is now the 
same, 3.7 percent. Core PCE inflation was expected to be 1.8 percent at the end of 2019. It is 
now forecast to be the same, 1.8 percent. Similarly, forecasts for these variables for 2020 are all 
within 0.1 percent of where they were in the June Tealbook. This is not an idiosyncratic feature 
of the Tealbook forecast. The Blue Chip September forecast for the year has also changed 
relatively little from the July forecast. My own forecast has also changed very little. 
So what has changed? The potential for higher tariffs on China have become a reality, at 
least for the September 1 increase. When talking to my contacts about tariffs, they made two 
comments. Two large retailers, one focused on home goods and the other on apparel, both of 
whom are subject to significant tariffs on the goods they sell, did not report undue concerns. 
Of course, no one wants to be subject to a tax increase, and they are no different. 
However, they both highlighted that, given the devaluation of the Chinese currency, the 
movement of production primarily to Vietnam, and more price pressures on distributors, the 

price changes are likely to be modest and unlikely to significantly reduce consumer demand for 
their products. 
The second comment that I have commonly heard from contacts is that uncertainty is 
actually down. In the spring, they were navigating what they thought would be temporary tariffs 
that would be removed as they became politically unpalatable. They are now assuming that 
tariffs are permanent, so they are now rapidly shifting the production of low-cost items from 
China to foreign competitors. They can accomplish this shift relatively quickly, they assert, 
because they had already started the process in response to rising labor costs in China. 
The transition costs seem manageable to these firms, because most of their suppliers are 
paying the costs of moving to countries not subject to tariffs. Although Southeast Asia benefits, 
China is clearly worse off. They also highlighted the fact that demand for products seemed quite 
strong, consistent with the strength we have observed in consumer expenditures. What makes 
them nervous, however, is the discussion of a recession in the press. 
A second change from the previous meeting is the 10-year Treasury rate. When it was 
speculated that Europeans would push their 10-year rates further down, this depressed U.S. rates. 
As Europeans have recently made clear that they were not going to push long-term yields to be 
ever more negative, our rates have moved up from their lows. Rather than a signal of domestic 
weakness, I view much of the movement in longer-term Treasury rates as reflective of weakness 
abroad and the rather drastic actions taken, particularly in Europe, to push long-term yields to 
very negative levels. 
A third change over the course of this year has been a modest deterioration in the outlook 
for our key trading partners, only part of which is a result of increasing trade barriers. It is 
important, in my view, to take a reckoning of the negative shocks that have emerged since we 

have changed policy course at the beginning of this year and match those with the policy actions 
taken since that time. 
A combination of trade barriers and weaker foreign real growth have likely knocked 
several tenths of a percentage point off current and expected real GDP growth. If we had been 
growing at the rate of potential growth and if we had been at full employment, such a 
development would normally call for a response of about the same magnitude in cuts to the 
federal funds rate. Yet since the beginning of the year, we have removed the expectation of two 
to three rate increases and added, likely as of tomorrow, two cuts, with the prospect of more to 
come. This reaction seems disproportionate to the effect of the shocks we have seen thus far and 
to the possible effect on the economy should additional trade barriers be raised. I agree with the 
Tealbook forecast, which factors in all of these shocks and, at the current level of the federal 
funds rate, already expects no meaningful progress in closing the output gap. 
Monetary policy accommodation does have effects, including less desirable effects—and 
this relates to President Evans’s comment at the end of the previous session. As expected, the 
reduction and expected further cuts in our rates have helped propel stock prices to near all-time 
highs. Particularly affected have been stocks related to commercial real estate, which have 
benefited from a benign economic environment and an accommodative monetary policy. 
The corporate bond market has also been on fire as firms rush to take advantage of the 
fire-sale prices on debt. One large banker—not in my District—has said that his bank is 
encouraging firms with high stock yields to fund stock buybacks with debt. Because lower rates 
encourage risk-taking, our current actions, and likely future actions, are the driving force behind 
the marketing of the risk-taking channel. 

Not surprisingly, leverage is increasing. Data produced by S&P Global tracks debt 
multiples of highly leveraged loans. For 2019, the average multiple on leveraged loans is 5.4, 
much higher than the 4.9 value reached at the previous peak before the most recent recession. 
Similarly, the average cash flow multiples of highly leveraged loans are at their lowest level 
since 2007. And the value of leveraged loan transactions with EBITDA adjustments for 
leveraged loans is much higher than in 2007. 
Clearly, there are risks to the forecast. However, reacting to risks not currently reflected 
in economic fundamentals has the potential to boost asset prices and increase the leverage of 
firms and households. This will likely exacerbate the next downturn, whenever it does occur. 
With very little change in the forecast, it appears that both mine and the majority of the 
Committee’s views have not changed much—a topic that I will return to tomorrow. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. I want to begin by posing a provocative 
question in the interest of encouraging conversation and discussion, perhaps. Why exactly do we 
have an outlook go-round at FOMC meetings? After all, most of the policy rules that we consult 
and that we publish in our policy report and that the staff uses to conduct alternative scenarios 
are static rules that use only inputs of currently available data and do not incorporate any forecast 
information whatsoever. 
Forecasting is hard. Forecasts are often wrong. So why do we discuss the outlook at 
these meetings, or, certainly, why do we do it on Tuesday? We could vote on Tuesday and 
discuss the outlook tomorrow. The answer I would give to my own question is that we have an 

outlook go-round at these meetings because monetary policy operates with lags. Certainly, 
Friedman called them long and variable. 
Any policy decision that we may reach tomorrow will have exactly zero effect on Q3 
GDP or September 2019 employment and inflation. However, operating subject to those long 
and variable lags, any policy decision we make tomorrow will begin to affect employment and 
inflation sometime next year. 
Given this reality, common sense suggests and academic models confirm that good 
monetary policy should be forward looking. And, indeed, in some simple DSGE models you can 
write optimal monetary policy as essentially a forward-looking policy rule based on expected 
inflation. And, indeed, President Bullard 20 years ago showed that well-formulated forward 
policy rules have a number of desirable macroeconomic properties. 
Having confronted and, I think, prevailed over the rather feeble straw man that I 
introduced with my opening question, let me now turn to the data and the outlook. And I agree 
with President Rosengren that the U.S. economy remains in a very good place, with low 
unemployment and inflation below but projected to revert toward our 2 percent objective. 
Wages are rising broadly in line with productivity and underlying inflation. I note that recently 
the BLS has projected an increase in trimmed productivity growth over the next 10 years to 
1.6 percent relative to the past 10 years. 
Labor force participation is up—obviously, a welcome development. Prime-age 
participation has rebounded but still remains below levels that prevailed in the previous 
expansion. The labor market is robust, but there is no evidence that rising wages are a source of 
cost-pushed pressure on price inflation. Indeed, if anything, the revised national income data 
show a noteworthy and, to me, welcome increase in labor share of national income in recent 

years. This is similar to past cycles when wage increases are absorbed by margin compression 
and are noninflationary. 
The supply side of the economy continues to surprise on the upside. Not surprisingly in 
view of the strong labor market, household incomes are strong, and we’re all aware that the 
consumer is the engine of growth in the economy. 
Now, that said, the staff and I agree with the projection, which, under current policy, 
projects growth will slow to 1.8 percent in the second half of the year. And this is really driven 
by a decline in business investment, in part due to falling profits and a decline in our exports due 
to slowing global real growth. Of course, the bright spot, residential investment, is projected to 
pick up, given a pretty significant decline in mortgage rates. 
So this is some of the good news in the data and in the staff projections, but, in my 
remaining comments, I would like to focus on what concerns me in the Tealbook’s projection, 
and that is the projection for PCE inflation. The staff projects that core PCE inflation will rise 
only to 1.8 percent by the end of this year, and that both headline and core will remain at 
1.8 percent through the end of our 2022 forecast horizon. So this is the baseline projection under 
roughly current policy: that we should not expect to hit our 2 percent inflation objective over the 
forecast horizon, let alone keep it there on a sustained basis. 
I’d also point out a recent survey conducted by a Fed watcher, Julia Coronado—some of 
you get her stuff. And, before every FOMC meeting, they survey about 120 market participants, 
and one of the questions they ask in there I found striking. They asked the question, over the 
next two years, what is the likelihood that we will see at least one six-month period with core 
PCE inflation at 2 percent? And the answer was 30 percent. So if you define that as success, 

essentially, we’ve got a 70 percent chance of not getting there in expectation, according to the 
people who were surveyed. 
Now, again, this is the baseline case, not the downside risk. But, in particular, I think if 
you look at the downside risk, I would argue that they are to the downside on inflation, and it 
comes from this issue of u* and the output gap. The staff in its baseline assumes a u* of 4.4 
percent, and the unemployment rate remaining at roughly the current level for the next three 
years. In their model, that generates excess demand, but yet it doesn’t push inflation above 
underlying. Why? Because import inflation is a drag, through a stronger dollar and global 
deflationary pressures. And so even with the assumed excess demand, we’re basically getting to 
1.8 percent under the baseline and staying there. Obviously, we have different views, and I 
respect those views about the priority, but, to me, I think it is important that, under our 
projection, we should be thinking of getting toward 2 percent. 
Now, a little comment because I think it will come up in the context of the framework 
review. The staff’s baseline, that PCE inflation remains below 2 percent, is internally consistent, 
because it relies on a basic policy rule that assumes that u* will remain at 4.4 percent throughout 
the forecast horizon. So it’s the usual tradeoff: We don’t like falling short of our inflation 
objective, but we don’t like it when too many people are working either, even if there’s no 
inflation. 
But I think this scenario assumes, contrary to historical experience on the FOMC, that 
over the next several years, if we keep seeing no upward pressure on inflation, then what we’ll 
do is, we’ll revise down our estimate of u* as we have done repeatedly over the past several 
years. And, indeed, in my own mind, that’s the way I think about the way we’re trading off. 

All of us, to some extent, are Bayesians. As we go through a period in which we don’t 
see inflation, we have some combination of adjusting our thoughts on the economy and adjusting 
policy, and that’s why u* is coming down. And I think that’s a very, very sensible way to think 
about our process. But, in particular, what it does tell me is, I think the risks to this baseline 
outlook are on the downside. 
So, in conclusion, in my remarks today I’ve made no mention of trade policy uncertainty, 
breakeven inflation, the Michigan survey—which did “print” at an all-time low, but I won’t 
mention that [laughter]—or the inverted yield curve. I have argued that monetary policy should 
be forward looking and have relied solely on the staff’s baseline modal projection. To me, such 
a baseline indicates that our current policy stance is too tight and inconsistent with our price 
stability mandate. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I continue to view the U.S. economy as 
slowing, with considerable downside risk and little inflation pressure. I see U.S. consumption, 
growth, and labor markets as still performing well, but I also see these as likely to be backward-
looking indicators in the current environment. Anecdotal information for domestically-oriented 
companies and businesses is consistent with continued strong performance in these markets. The 
U.S. manufacturing sector is contracting based on current data. This could easily get worse 
before it gets better. In my view, it may well not bounce back, as suggested in the Tealbook. 
I see the newly announced strike at General Motors as ominous in this regard. Previous 
strikes there have shaved a few tenths off U.S. real GDP growth. Of course, everything depends 
on how long the strike goes. From a policymaking point of view, we should probably assume 

that manufacturing will not improve and make policy decisions accordingly instead of assuming 
that all will be well. 
Global manufacturing appears to be contracting as well, and it has its own set of 
downside risks. A District contact operating in these markets suggested to me that business has 
been declining over the past five months. In addition, there’s considerable pessimism about 
2020. 
Both U.S. and global business investment are being chilled by the expanding trade war. 
Let me reiterate my take on the trade war. I think we are witnessing a breakdown in the 
consensus on trade liberalization in the United States that has dominated Washington and global 
politics for 75 years. Without U.S. leadership, both tariff and nontariff barriers will likely rise 
and remain at higher levels than they would otherwise. The retreat from free-trade principles in 
the United States is, arguably, bipartisan. I see no other global force for trade liberalization. 
Most countries that could play this role are more mercantilist than the United States, so I see this 
as a very risky situation for the United States. We depend on global trade. It’s probably going to 
be a very long and protracted trade war. I see little prospect for meaningful resolution in the near 
term. I see our trading partners potentially pulling back from potential resolution. 
I think China, in particular, will likely try to wait out the current Administration. I think 
this should be our working assumption—that there’s going to be no resolution in the near term. 
Also, I think the issues, especially with respect to China, are far too deep to resolve quickly if 
you want to resolve them in a meaningful way. So I see a protracted trade war on the horizon 
that will be an ongoing feature of the global economy. 
Over the weekend we had the beginnings of what looks like a possible global oil shock, 
with an attack on Saudi facilities. This attack was different, I think, from what we’ve seen 

historically. We have drones carrying out the attack. You have the ability to escape particular 
blame or easily place blame, unlike with incoming tanks or something like that—instead, you 
can send the drones in. I think the message is quite clear that this infrastructure is vulnerable not 
just in Saudi Arabia, but also elsewhere, and the technology to carry out attacks has changed, so 
the attacks cannot be ruled out. And future escalation might even be considered likely at this 
juncture. 
Again, from a policymaking perspective, I think our working assumption should be that 
there will likely be further disruption to global oil markets, and this will probably chill global 
business conditions further than they have already been chilled. I interpret intermeeting bond 
market volatility as pricing in some of this downside risk, and the Lorie Logan exhibit 1, panel 3, 
seemed to confirm at least some of this with respect to the trade war. Whereas previously 
resolution was expected, it’s now not expected, and I think that drove a lot of the pricing in bond 
markets over the intermeeting period. 
Despite some recovery, yields are generally down since our July meeting. The signal 
seems clear to me at least. Markets see less inflation and less growth over the forecast horizon 
than the FOMC. Markets are pricing in a higher risk of recession than we are. I think we should 
take these market signals quite seriously. The yield curve has become more substantially 
inverted based on the 10 year–3 month spread at times during the intermeeting period. The 
current U.S. policy rate is higher than most yields anywhere in the G-7 out to 10 years. I find 
that a very ominous feature of our current policy. The 10 year–2 year Treasury yield spread is 
flat, and that suggests to me that we may just be able to finesse our way out of this, as long as we 
follow through on expected rate cuts and possibly return the yield curve to a more normal, 

upward-sloping shape. I’m not sure if the dot plot will send that signal. I think that’s a 
consideration for tomorrow’s discussion. 
In general, I’m not comfortable with the current yield curve. I think it’s indicating that 
this Committee is currently more “hawkish” than necessary. I think it’s sending a bearish signal 
about the prospects for the U.S. economy. I’m not at all convinced by attempts to brush off this 
signal, given how strong it’s been during the postwar era. And I don’t see a good reason for us 
to try to brush it off in this environment, as we’re not trying to fight against particularly high 
inflation at this juncture. 
Inflation expectations, as measured by a straight read of the TIPS yield, are exceptionally 
low. The TIPS five-year breakeven adjusted to go from CPI inflation to PCE inflation suggests 
that markets think that PCE inflation will be only about 1¼ percent over the next five years, well 
below our 2 percent inflation target on our preferred measure. I continue to regard it as 
dangerous to try to decompose TIPS yields using affine term structure models that are known to 
explain very little and are known also to be excessively sensitive to underlying assumptions. 
These models will nearly always tell us that movements in TIPS yields are merely noise—which 
is the same as saying its due to term premiums, because these models embed a prior that inflation 
expectations cannot move very rapidly. 
A better interpretation, in my view—at least, from a policymaking perspective—is to 
throw out these empirical models and instead recognize that the TIPS markets reflect the actions 
of actual investors, taking into account all available information and attempting to predict actual 
inflation outcomes over various horizons. Their verdict is that the FOMC is likely to miss its 
inflation target substantially to the downside over the next five years. 

We need to get to a policy that inspires more confidence in medium-term inflation 
outcomes and, in fact, tends toward inflation outcomes on a preferred measure that are higher 
than the inflation target to make up for past misses on the low side. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. In many ways, little has changed since we last met. 
This is something others have said. The underlying forces pushing on the economy are positive 
or negative, depending on where you sit. On the positive side, consumer spending remains 
strong, spurred by solid gains in employment and income. And this is confirmed by my contacts 
in the retail sector who remain cautiously upbeat, executing on growth plans while ensuring they 
are well prepared should a downturn occur. 
Other than retail and other consumer-facing businesses, firms are less sanguine. Trade 
uncertainty and global developments have translated into less demand and lower confidence. My 
contacts tell me that higher tariffs, slower global growth, and dollar appreciation have directly 
affected their business investment, and further softness is expected. Manufacturing firms have 
been particularly hard hit. One contact noted that he has moved his plan B from his shelf to his 
desk, feeling more concerned that a material slowdown is ahead, and others in the business-
facing sector share his unease. 
When I weigh these two forces, the positives and the negatives, I am reminded that, while 
consumers are two-thirds of the economy, their prospects depend materially on the outlook for 
other businesses. In this sense, the decline in business investment and sentiment is more 
worrisome than its simple weight in the economy. And, in fact, the slowdown in job growth may 
be a first signal that these businesses are starting to affect the broader economy. As a 
consequence, my outlook—about the same as it was last time—is conditioned on additional 

accommodation relative to where it was in June, our previous SEP. I will discuss this in more 
detail tomorrow. 
Now, as usual in an SEP round, we took another careful look at the longer-run variables 
used to calibrate policy. So, starting with r*—I knew you’d like that, Vice Chair—I have kept 
my estimate of the long-run value at ½ percent. However, in light of the paper by Alan Taylor 
and Òscar Jordà presented at the Jackson Hole Symposium last month, I am attuned to the fact 
that global factors can influence our neutral rate. Worsening foreign real GDP growth is leading 
to inflows into long-term U.S. Treasury securities, lowering their yields, and putting downward 
pressure on r*. Indeed, the Christensen-Rudebusch term structure model that we maintain in San 
Francisco shows r* has fallen by a couple of tenths since the middle of the year and is currently 
below 0.5 percent. Now, some of this may be due to temporary “search for yield,” as Lorie 
mentioned. But I remain open to the possibility that r* may be lower than I have penciled in 
currently, at least in the medium term. 
Regarding g*, a recent symposium on growth that President Barkin and I cohosted in San 
Francisco provided few reasons to be more optimistic that growth can exceed 2 percent in the 
coming years. Of course, I’m open to President Barkin having a more bullish recollection. 
[Laughter] We heard from a range of prominent micro- and macroeconomic experts, such as 
Susan Athey, Chad Jones, Peter Klenow, Nick Bloom, and others, as well as from several 
industry leaders.The discussion highlighted a variety of headwinds to productivity growth. One 
notable factor is the waning contribution coming from rising educational attainment, and this is 
something that others have mentioned previously. A second factor is limited public investment 
in basic research, even as it is becoming harder and harder to find good ideas. A third factor—
and we spent a lot of time on this—is that higher industry concentration may also be having an 

effect. For instance, the winners of the information-technology race—the leaders, as they are 
called—can charge large markups and extract very large rents, and, arguably, they then have less 
incentive than they once did to invest in new path-breaking innovation. The followers, those 
who came later, also face less incentive to innovate, because they have no realistic chance to take 
over the leaders. The key “takeaway” is that rapid growth in information technology over the 
past few decades may have led to entrenched positions for industry leaders that, for now, can 
translate into slower productivity growth than we would see otherwise. 
So, last but not least, let me turn to u*. And here I have revised down my estimate to 
4 percent. The discussion at our joint Chicago and San Francisco Board of Directors meeting 
last week confirmed for me that the sustainable unemployment rate has fallen significantly over 
the past few years not just because inflation has been low, but because these other things that we 
are hearing in the Fed Listens events and these anecdotal reports are helping me understand that. 
As President Evans can attest, directors from both Districts emphasize that employers are 
casting a wider net than they once did, broadening the recruiting to include traditionally 
marginalized groups. Employers are also expanding training and provision of nonwage benefits, 
such as transportation to worksites. In fact, one company is driving into the inner city to pick up 
workers and drive them back to plants in more remot locations just to get workers in place to do 
production. These measures are helping sustain employment growth amid a very tight labor 
market without spurring above-trend aggregate nominal wage growth. 
Now, in terms of price inflation, my lower u* estimate helps reconcile very low actual or 
measured unemployment with muted inflation pressures. Core PCE inflation remains soft, with 
core PCE prices rising only 1.6 percent in July. I expect inflation to increase subtly over time to 
reach target only in 2021. That said, I am a little concerned that inflation expectations are 

starting to work against us. Since our July meeting, market participants have been pricing in 
substantially less compensation for future inflation. This could reflect a growing recognition 
among market participants that,, due to our proximity to the effective lower bound, monetary 
policy will have less ability to offset the effect of future negative shocks. As noted in the 
framework memos, this creates a deflationary bias in expectation. But lower compensation for 
future inflation might also reflect the fact that actual inflation has consistently been below target 
for the past seven years, causing market participants to infer that we are okay with, or at least not 
very worried about, inflation close to but not sustainably at 2 percent. In other words, the 
perceived pi* may be less than 2 percent. 
Ultimately, the issue we are facing is a very practical one. Whether market participants 
believe we are constrained in our ability to hit 2 percent or believe that we are content with 
1.7 percent or 1.8 percent inflation, the outcome is the same. By lowering nominal rates, every 
one-tenth decline in inflation expectation is a loss of needed policy space—a topic I will return to 
tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. There has been little change in the Fourth 
District economic conditions since our previous meeting. The Cleveland Fed staff diffusion 
index of business conditions was zero in July, indicating stable economic activity. Contacts in 
the manufacturing and freight sectors continue to point to rising tariffs and softer global demand 
as weighing on activities since early summer. While many firms said uncertainty about trade 
policy was generating caution, many also remain optimistic about current and future business 
conditions. Almost no contacts expect a recession this year or next or expect major changes in 

their profitability. Firms outside the manufacturing sector have not changed their capital 
spending or hiring plans. 
Some retailers are concerned about an expansion of tariffs on consumer goods, but most 
expect consumer spending confidence to remain solid. As one director said, “Uncertainty is the 
issue. Demand is strong.” District labor market conditions remain strong. The unemployment 
rate has remained at 4 percent in July, 1 percentage point below the Cleveland staff’s estimate of 
its longer-run normal level and near its lowest level seen over the past 40 years. 
Year-over-year growth in payroll employment in the District has slowed since the start of 
the year to a bit below ½ percent in July, which is the Cleveland staff’s estimate of its longer-run 
trend. District contacts suggest that the slowdown in employment growth is related to limited 
labor supply rather than lower demand for workers. A Cleveland Fed director associated with a 
labor and workforce development agency reported results of his firm’s quarterly employer 
survey, in which 9 out of 10 respondents reported trouble hiring workers and 65 percent said 
they plan to continue to hire. Some firms were reluctant to raise wages, on account of their 
limited pricing power, and others thought the wages they are offering are commensurate with the 
skill sets available. 
Even so, there were unprecedented spikes in average and median wages paid across 
respondents in the survey. The tightness in the labor market is negatively affecting activity. One 
director from a community bank noted that several commercial clients continued to turn down 
projects because they can’t find the needed workers. Another director reported that increases in 
wages for lower-wage workers are putting upward pressure on wages across the skill spectrum as 
firms try to maintain their wage structures. 

Now, while wage pressures remain elevated, price pressures of District firms continue to 
moderate, partly reflecting lower steel, copper, and shipping costs. About one-fifth of District 
firms reported increasing their own prices over the intermeeting period, but that’s the lowest 
level since mid-2017 and down significantly from levels seen in the second half of last year. 
Regarding the national economy, on the whole, incoming data over the intermeeting 
period have come in largely as expected, and I have made little change to my forecast. Although 
the attack on the Saudi Arabian oil fields adds to the risk of a more significant slowdown, at this 
point, growth in the United States appears to be slowing toward trend growth, which I estimate to 
be about 2 percent. 
In my view, the most likely outcome continues to be that, over the forecast horizon, 
output growth and employment growth will slow toward trend. The unemployment rate will 
remain at or below 4 percent, which is below my estimate of its longer-run level of 4 to 
4½ percent, and inflation will gradually rise to 2 percent. Although business investment, 
manufacturing, and exports are soft, the softness is offset by strong growth in consumer 
spending, which is supported by the strength in labor markets and solid consumer sentiment. 
Payroll job growth has slowed from last year, but the job gains have averaged 156,000 
over the past three months, which is well above trend. The unemployment rate continues to run 
at 3.7 percent, near a 50-year low, and the participation rate has remained in the narrow range 
that has prevailed for several years despite a downward trend driven by demographics. Growth 
in average hourly earnings has remained stable at a level higher than observed a few years ago, 
and small businesses continue to find the job market tight. In August, the share of National 
Federation of Independent Business survey respondents reporting the quality of labor as their 

largest concern and the share reporting few or no qualified applications for job openings reached 
new highs for this expansion. 
Housing market activity appears to be stabilizing after several quarters of decline, with 
refinancing activity up, reflecting the decline in mortgage rates driven by lower 10-year Treasury 
yields. Indeed, on net, financial conditions are accommodative. The Chicago Fed’s National 
Financial Conditions Index indicates that financial conditions are easier than for most of the 
2015 to 2017 period. 
Sovereign bond yields here and abroad have declined since our July meeting, which 
suggests that bond investors are less sanguine about the economy. In contrast, corporate credit 
spreads in the United States have increased relatively little and remain at historically narrow 
levels, and equity prices are near record highs. Now, we have seen some fairly significant 
increases in long-term bond yields over the past couple of weeks, which continued after the ECB 
announced its easing package and suggests there isn’t an easy interpretation of what’s driving 
these movements in yield. 
Inflation is running below our 2 percent target, but incoming information is consistent 
with inflation gradually firming after low readings early in the year that reflected transitory 
idiosyncratic factors. While headline PCE inflation has been held down by energy prices, the 
annualized three-month percent change in core PCE prices was above 2 percent in both June and 
July. In July, the Cleveland Fed staff’s median PCE inflation measure remained at 2.6 percent, 
and the Dallas Fed’s trimmed mean PCE inflation measure remained at 2 percent. And, as 
President Rosengren indicated in a recent speech, in the past when the core and trimmed mean 
PCE inflation measures have diverged, core PCE inflation has tended to move toward the 
trimmed mean. 

The cyclical component of core PCE inflation constructed by the Cleveland Fed staff 
based on finely disaggregated data, which I reported on at our previous meeting, has been stable 
over the past couple of months. It’s at its highest level in the post-crisis period and near its pre-
recession level. And in August, the Cleveland Fed’s median and trimmed-mean CPI inflation 
measures were little changed, with both rates above 2 percent. I take all of this as positive 
evidence in suggesting that inflation should continue to firm. 
The only caveat to this is the mixed readings that we have had on longer-run inflation 
expectations since our July meeting. Although long-run PCE inflation as given in the 
Philadelphia Fed Survey of Professional Forecasters remains steady at 2 percent, readings on 
consumer expectations in the New York Fed and Michigan surveys edged down after having 
moved up at the time of our July meeting. And the Cleveland Fed’s five-year, five-year-forward 
measure, which combines both market and survey data, also edged down after being little 
changed from May to July. We’re going to have to wait and see if these latest movements reflect 
the typical volatility of these measures or whether this softening continues. But if there is a 
sustained pullback in Saudi Arabian oil production as a result of the attacks, higher energy prices 
could put upward pressure on inflation expectations. Again, we’re going to have to wait and see 
how this evolves. 
Now, to achieve the outcomes in my modal forecast, my federal funds rate path is 
relatively flat, with the funds rate at its current level over the remainder of this year and 
incorporating only a few 25 basis point increases over the forecast horizon. This is slightly more 
shallow than I had in my June SEP submission, reflecting both July’s cut in rates and the 
downward revision I made to my estimate of the longer-run federal funds rate, which I moved 
from 3 percent to 2¾ percent. 

A variety of simple monetary policy rules, including those available on the Cleveland Fed 
website, would suggest a steeper policy rate path would be appropriate. I penciled in a shallower 
path, because I view that as consistent with a balanced approach to our dual-mandate goals and 
also considering the risks of financial stability, which I think we need to take into account when 
setting policy in this environment. 
This is a policy strategy in which, so long as output is growing at its trend rate, the labor 
market remains solid, and inflation expectations remain reasonably well anchored, we wouldn’t 
take deliberate action to inflate the economy with another rate cut. And that’s based on the 
current level of interest rates and also the current and expected path of inflation. We basically 
would allow inflation to move up gradually, as it’s expected to do, even though it would take a 
bit longer to get there. But the strategy also doesn’t take deliberate action to curtail an inflation 
overshoot so long as inflation doesn’t rise too far above 2 percent. So, again, this is consistent 
with a symmetric approach to our inflation goal. 
I think this continued patience on inflation, which is basically an opportunistic reinflation 
strategy, does recognize there is risk to financial stability posed by the current high levels of 
corporate debt, leveraged lending, and commercial real estate valuations. And, in an 
environment of low global interest rates, monetary policy actions that would encourage 
additional reach-for-yield behavior might offer some near-term benefit, but it would be at the 
cost of weakening the economy’s foundation over the medium term. 
Now, I have been discussing my modal outlook, but, of course, there are some salient 
risks, which I view as weighted to the downside for growth. The ongoing uncertainty caused by 
trade policy tariffs has certainly weighed on business sentiment, investment, and manufacturing 
activity in the United States and contributed to slower growth abroad. Other risks include Brexit, 

the potential for a disruptive resolution to the protests in Hong Kong, and the possibility of a 
sustained pullback in Saudi Arabian oil production, which also poses an upside risk to the 
inflation forecast. If the weakness in business spending begins to affect hiring and then, in turn, 
consumption, we could find ourselves in a weak growth scenario in which economic growth 
slows well below trend, the unemployment rate rises, and inflation expectations and inflation 
remain low for a sustained period. 
It’s not entirely clear to me what’s driving the behavior of longer-term Treasury yields. 
Demand for safe assets is likely one factor. But low yields also suggest that bond investors are 
placing a high likelihood on this weak-growth scenario. And, should such a scenario begin to 
emerge, the short- and medium-term equilibrium interest rate would move down, and the federal 
funds rate would need to move down as well in order to sustain the expansion and foster 
achievement of our longer-run goals of maximum employment and price stability. 
There are some upside risks to my forecast as well. Many businesses are telling us that 
it’s the uncertainty that’s weighing on activity and not weak demand. A quicker and more 
positive resolution to some of these uncertainties should support growth and is an upside risk to 
my forecast. Consumer spending, which has held up very well despite the uncertainties, may be 
indicating there is additional positive underlying momentum in the economy. And during the 
2015–16 period, there was a slowdown in global demand, a sharp decline in oil prices, and 
sizable appreciation of the dollar, which drove a significant pullback in business investment and 
manufacturing activity, but the overall U.S. economy showed considerable resilience. I kept this 
experience in mind as I put together my outlook for the economy and monetary policy. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 

MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Regarding the forecast, I once again find the 
overall profile of the staff’s forecast in the Tealbook to closely align with my own. I see growth 
that’s slightly higher than trend growth in the near term and reverting to trend-like growth of 
almost 2 percent further out in the forecast horizon. I also anticipate that inflation will return to 
target sometime in 2021, and the recent signs of some firming, especially in core CPI, are 
informing my view that inflation is slowly returning to target. That said, the deterioration in 
market-based measures of longer-run expected inflation, as well as the consistent undershooting 
of our target, lead me to acknowledge that there are significant downside risks to my modal 
projection. I also continue to anticipate that the unemployment rate will remain below its natural 
rate. 
The view that the economy is likely to experience trend-like growth is supported by data 
in the Third District as well as from conversations with many of my contacts. Unemployment in 
the District is at historic lows, and wages are growing moderately. However, the strength in 
employment growth has waned, with weakness showing up in manufacturing and education. On 
a brighter note, we continue to see gains in labor force participation. So, like the nation, 
economic growth is largely due to the consumer who’s benefiting from accommodative financial 
conditions, gains in wealth, steady employment prospects, and solid gains to personal income. 
Our nonmanufacturing survey with a reading above-average reflects that strength in consumer 
spending. 
Now, with respect to manufacturing in our region, the sector is performing quite a bit 
better than indicated in other regional surveys and better than the nation. Our current 
manufacturing index remained in positive territory in both August and September and showed 
strength in both orders and shipments. Of note was the bounceback in current employment from 

its unusually low reading in August. Additionally, manufacturers in the region remained 
optimistic, with indexes for future employment and capital expenditures well above 
nonrecessionary averages. 
One likely reason for the divergence in our survey from others is that manufacturers in 
our region are much less exposed to trade shocks than in other areas of the country. In particular, 
if you take Pennsylvania, our main trading partner is Canada and not China, so we’re seeing a 
very different dynamic in the Third District. Even so, we’re hearing more concerns over the 
trade war, and many manufacturers with foreign supply chains are indicating that they are 
diversifying those lines or planning to do so in the near future. Take a recent report from the 
CEO of a major supply chain inspection company with over 6,000 clients worldwide. This firm 
provides services to businesses that are analyzing additions or changes to their supply chain 
manufacturing partners. The report indicated falling China-based inspections by U.S. 
companies—actually, a 13 percent drop in China-based inspections, as you would expect as 
people start to move out of China or not invest in China—and, as others have noted, significant 
increases in inspections in Vietnam, Cambodia, and India of 21 percent, 15 percent, and 
25 percent, respectively. 
These increases are consistent with many reports from contacts and the media, but what 
surprised me is the fact that Mexico’s inspection rate has jumped a staggering 119 percent during 
the first six months of this year. It appears that neither China nor the United States will be 
winners in this trade war, but that countries in Southeast Asia and especially Mexico will be the 
beneficiaries. 

So back to the Third District. Weakness continues in residential real estate, and the 
decline in mortgage rates has yet to have any noticeable effect on our housing markets. In fact, 
real estate sales have been softening of late. 
To summarize, the District economy is growing modestly. The growth is almost entirely 
driven by the consumer, which is in line with what we’re seeing nationally. The most recent data 
continues to indicate that the recovery still has room to run, and my forecast continues to project 
trendlike growth and a return of inflation to target. What this means for policy I will discuss 
tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Although I heard some positive reports, on 
balance, my contacts seem more downbeat than last round. Consumer-facing businesses still 
report strong sales, though some expected growth will slow next year. Manufacturing is clearly 
a different story, with many firms indicating that orders have fallen this year. Repeatedly, we 
heard how trade policy has raised uncertainty. On-again, off-again brinkmanship is adversely 
affecting many businesses, and a number are putting plans to expand operations on hold. Add in 
a weak global growth outlook, and it is easy to understand the many reports of dormant cap-ex. 
The recent incident in Saudi Arabia could boost uncertainty further. 
The labor market remains healthy, with continuing commentary about worker shortages. 
That said, some firms reported scaling back hiring plans, and a few mentioned they have made 
staffing cuts. These firms primarily were in manufacturing. My contact with the broadest view 
on the labor market, who runs a major temp help services group, characterized labor demand as a 
little softer but not unwinding. Nothing notable was mentioned about wage or price pressure. 
Firms are certainly not talking about widespread wage increases to address worker shortages. Of 

course, the other labor market news is the strike at General Motors. Before the walkout, our auto 
industry contacts had put a high probability on a strike but expected that any work stoppage 
would be short lived. We’ll have to see. 
Separately, despite the downbeat tone of our nonfinancial contacts, these contacts aren’t 
expecting that a downward economic spiral is near. The same can’t be said for our financial 
market contacts, who found 101 ways to tell us that investors expect a recession. [Laughter] 
They typically acknowledged that this view isn’t supported by the U.S. macrodata but then 
continued to highlight downside risks—in particular worldwide deglobalization trends and the 
so-called Japanification of Europe. I would note that these finance-contact calls took place in 
early September. Maybe they’re feeling better now. 
Regarding the national outlook, my growth and inflation forecasts have not changed 
much from my June SEP submission. To get to that point, I had to balance the more downbeat 
business and global elements with the continued positive momentum in consumer spending 
we’ve been seeing. I also had to write down a somewhat more accommodative monetary policy 
path than I had in June. My forecast of economic activity is broadly in line with the Tealbook. I 
have real GDP expanding a little over 2 percent in the second half of this year and then growing 
at a rate that is essentially indistinguishable from potential over the remainder of the forecast 
period. Not many external observers are likely to jump and cheer at 2 percent growth in 2020, 
but we all recognize that that kind of growth is just a baseline feature of the current environment. 
I expect the unemployment rate will hover near its current level throughout the projection 
period, which is about ½ percentage point below my admittedly highly uncertain estimate of its 
natural rate. 

For inflation, the data have come in roughly as I expected. I do share Governor 
Clarida’s, President Daly’s, and President Bullard’s concern about inflation not confidently 
getting to 2 percent. So my policy assumption tries to achieve that. I continue to project that 
core inflation will move up to target in 2020 and will overshoot by two-tenths of a percentage 
pointin 2021 and 2022. This trajectory is an explicit design feature of my forecast, as it has been 
for some time. Such an overshoot is necessary to boost inflation expectations to be symmetric 
around 2 percent and, thus, deliver our inflation goal. As I’ve said before, I see this kind of 
modest overshoot as being consistent with our current monetary policy framework. 
To generate my forecast, I have a policy rate path that includes one rate cut for the 
remainder of 2019. That presumably would be tomorrow. I assume rates hold steady for a while 
and then envision one 25-basis-point increase by the end of 2021 and another in 2022. Relative 
to my June submission, this path is “lower for longer.” Given where inflation pressures are 
today, I believe this accommodative path and a strongly communicated commitment to our 
symmetric 2 percent target likely will be needed to sustainably achieve our inflation mandate 
within the current forecast window. I’ll discuss my policy rationale more tomorrow. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. I would agree with those who have said, “We know the economic 
situation pretty well as it sits today.” The data over the past few months have been quite 
consistent. Consumer spending is strong and showing no sign of weakness, with the recent auto 
sales report particularly heartening. The labor market remains tight by nearly all measures, with 
the recent slowing of job growth signaling only a return to trend. Business investment has been 
softer, but, remember, last year’s strength gave us some tough comps. Manufacturing is weak, as 

are international economies and U.S. companies with heavy international exposure. Residential 
investment is starting to rebound. 
Inflation seems to be firming. The Tealbook forecasts about a 2 percent increase in core 
PCE prices in the second half of the year, and core PCE inflation has increased at a 2.3 percent 
annual rate over the past four months. I would note that we have to hit only 1.4 percent for the 
next two months to meet Julia Coronado’s survey—and I like that bet a lot, Rich. 
Risks are clearly elevated versus our previous meeting. Increased China tariffs and 
Chinese retaliation went from a threat to a reality. Oil supply may be being disrupted. Brexit 
looks increasingly messy. The bond markets moved meaningfully, with the effect not yet clear 
on business and consumer confidence. The U.S. political situation looks increasingly 
contentious. I will note, one risk reduction is the valuation of WeWork, which has more than 
halved since President Rosengren made the case for shorting it at our July meeting. [Laughter] 
MR. CLARIDA. Where’s our macroprudential policy? [Laughter] 
MR. BARKIN. Over the past few weeks, we have held roughly a dozen business 
roundtables in our District, particularly in the smaller towns. We ask participants about their 
companies, and the overwhelming response we get is that their business is good, with more 
people saying “great” than “iffy” or “weak.” We ask about their investment posture going 
forward, and most folks say they are maintaining investment, with more of them doubling down 
than cutting back. I share that just to emphasize that today’s economy is still fundamentally 
healthy, at least as perceived by our District’s business leaders. 
Small town businesses refocused my attention on the tightness of the labor market despite 
data showing that that’s where labor force participation is lowest. In every discussion, people 
raised the issue of unfilled open positions. So I want to come back to a debate we’ve been 

having about the cost of low unemployment rates in a “hot” economy. For sure, inflation and 
asset bubbles remain risks. But I think there’s a third significant risk which I’ll call “labor 
oversubstitution,” and that risk creates longer-term effects we should consider. 
I see a number of businesses that don’t believe they can increase prices, given 
competitive pressures and anchored expectations, and, consequently, they feel limited in their 
potential to pay much higher wages. Short term, they create backlogs in response to which they 
can run at lower quality or live with stockouts. We hear this especially today from contacts in 
the construction sector because of a shortage of skilled trades. Each of us knows how hard it is 
to find a good plumber who will show up on time. 
As an aside, these quality declines would be consistent with the cyclical 
undermeasurement of price inflation. If firms persist in this belief, the relative scarcity of labor 
and the low cost of capital may be encouraging excessive substitution of capital for labor, 
especially low skilled labor, as that is where substitutability comes most easily. I’m hearing that 
in my contact discussions. I hear of firms reluctantly implementing technologies that replace 
labor, like scanners in rural grocery stores. I hear of firms switching to mergers and acquisitions 
rather than using traditional growth channels because low-cost debt makes acquisition accretive, 
and they believe they can’t hire for growth. As supply chains reconfigure, I hear of firms 
choosing not to onshore, because they don’t believe labor will be available. I hear of firms 
financing buybacks through low-cost leverage, taking away future resiliency. And I would just 
note that this labor oversubstitution is raising the risk to the least skilled, and I’d urge us to 
monitor it closely. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 

MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. Since the July FOMC meeting, we’ve seen an escalation 
of trade tensions, and concerns about the global outlook have increased. These forces are 
weighing on business investment, manufacturing production, and exports. Financial markets 
have been volatile, and Treasury yields have fallen at the long end. Most recently, geostrategic 
tensions have risen. By contrast, domestic economic data have come in close to expectations, 
reflecting continued strong consumer spending, and the labor market has continued to tighten 
from a strong position, although at a slower pace. 
Recent revisions to historical GDP and payroll employment data suggest there was 
materially less momentum in the economy coming into this year than previously shown. The 
revised data show no acceleration in economic growth in 2018 over 2017 and only a modest 
acceleration in payroll growth, contrary to our earlier estimates. It’s difficult to tell with 
precision how much of that slower-growth trajectory and the revised data reflect a smaller boost 
to demand from tax cuts than previously expected. Larger offsets from trade uncertainty, weak 
global growth, and noise in the data may also be contributors. But whatever the cause, the 
revised data show considerably less momentum and validate the Committee’s revisions in the 
path of the federal funds rate and balance sheet policy, although these likely would have come 
sooner if the revised data had been available contemporaneously. With these revisions, it 
appears the U.S. economy is decelerating gradually from its above-trend pace. According to the 
BLS’s preliminary estimate of the benchmark level of payroll employment in March, payrolls 
have likely increased at an average monthly pace of about 190,000 last year, close to the 180,000 
monthly gains seen in 2017. So, excluding the small increase in temporary hires for the Census 
in August, payrolls over the past three months are estimated to have increased at an average pace 

of about 150,000 per month, slower than the downwardly revised estimate for last year although 
still higher than the replacement rate. 
Meanwhile, the unemployment rate has stabilized around a historically low 3.7 percent 
over the past year, while the labor force participation rate of prime-age individuals, and 
especially of prime-age women, moved up last month, continuing its upward trajectory. And the 
unemployment rate of African Americans fell to the lowest rate on record. Similarly, wages 
have continued to grow at a moderate pace. In terms of indicators that I track for signs of a shift 
in the outlook, weekly initial claims for unemployment insurance remain at historically low 
levels, and the latest report contained a reassuring improvement in the workweek, which ticks 
back up to 34.4 hours after having declined in previous months. 
Consumer spending has remained strong despite some slowing in retail sales in August 
and appeared consistent with PCE growth at an annual rate of about 3 percent in the current 
quarter, similar to the first half. In addition, there are signs that activity in the housing sector is 
starting to rebound, consistent with the decline in mortgage rates since last year. In contrast, 
business investment has been weak and on track for an outright contraction in the second half, 
although the jump in oil prices may provide some support to investment in drilling and mining. 
Manufacturing production fell in July after declining at an annual rate of 2½ percent in 
the first half, and exports have also been disappointing, posting a decline in the first half against 
the backdrop of trade conflict, weak foreign growth, and a strong dollar. 
In speaking with fiscal and monetary officials of other major economies, I found that a 
common theme is difficulty in discerning whether the weakness in factory output and in exports 
will remain restricted to the global integrated supply chains in the manufacturing sector, or 

whether it is an early harbinger of a broader slowing that could spread to services and 
consumers. 
Financial markets have shown considerable volatility in reaction to shifting news about 
trade conflict and global growth, although, on net, financial conditions uniformly have remained 
at highly accommodative levels in terms of aggregate indexes. Equity prices were volatile but 
have moved sideways, on net, over the period, with defensive sectors gaining as cyclicals in 
sectors with China exposure showed declines. The most pronounced moves have been at the 
long end of the yield curve. The 10-year Treasury yield has declined 21 basis points, on net, 
since we met in July but, within that period, had declined close to 60 basis points. It’s hard to 
tell how much of those earlier large moves reflect fundamentals, such as flight-to-safety flows 
and expectations of monetary accommodation in the face of weaker global growth and trade 
conflicts. 
Technical factors were prominently cited in my discussions with market participants, 
similar to the New York Fed’s survey. The demand for long-dated Treasury securities on the 
part of both U.S. and foreign investors, notably pension funds and insurers, was reportedly very 
strong in the face of expected increases in the share of negative-yielding debt globally. Some of 
this reflects the fact that many of these investors are forced buyers of the long end, and foreign 
investors appear to be surprisingly willing to add long-duration Treasury exposure without 
hedging the FX risk, given the yield differential relative to negative-yielding instruments, such as 
bunds and JGBs. 
On net, the reduction in Treasury yields has led to more-accommodative financing 
conditions despite the dollar strengthening somewhat. Yields on investment-grade debt have 
fallen largely in line with Treasury yields, while yields on speculative-grade debt have fallen 

less. But in absolute terms, their yields have declined roughly 50 basis points since earlier in 
the year. 
On the international front, indicators of economic activity in the third quarter have been 
generally disappointing. In China, industrial production and retail sales disappointed in July and 
August, which came on the heels of a marked slowdown in second-quarter GDP growth. In the 
euro area, second-quarter GDP growth slowed to 0.8 percent, reflecting a slump in net exports 
and continuing weakness in manufacturing. And in Germany, output contracted in the second 
quarter and could contract again in the current quarter. So, in contrast to the stability of the 
modal outlook, I think the balance of risks has worsened notably in the intermeeting period. Last 
month, the spread between 10- and 2-year Treasury yields turned negative for the first time since 
2007. 
Recession probabilities implied by a variety of models that use term spreads increased 
modestly since our July meeting. Although, as other have noted, extracting the right signal from 
the yield curve of the odds of recession is quite difficult at present, given the unusual levels of 
term premiums, I do take some negative signal from the pronounced changes in the curve we’ve 
seen over recent quarters. In terms of those downside risks, first and most prominent is that 
business investment appears increasingly paralyzed in the face of the neverending stream of 
surprises on possible additional tariffs, creating what is now looking like fundamental 
uncertainty about the rules governing international transactions, with important implications for 
global supply chains. 
A second important risk is that, even without any further deterioration in trade tensions, 
the ongoing slowdown in business investment, manufacturing, and exports could tip into a 

broader and more severe slowdown than is generally anticipated if firms’ pull back spreads from 
investment to hiring, affecting consumers who have remained quite resilient. 
A third substantial risk is a possibility of a much sharper slowdown in foreign growth 
triggered possibly by geopolitical developments, including a “hard” Brexit, which would be an 
important hit not only to the United Kingdom, but also to important European trade partners, 
such as Germany. 
The recent disruption to the oil supply in Saudi Arabia and the attendant increase in oil 
prices is likely to have mixed effects on the U.S. economy, imposing some tax on consumers in 
the form of higher prices at the pump while creating more favorable conditions for shale 
producers. And while some of our significant trading partners, such as Canada, could likewise 
benefit from the windfall to producers, others who are net importers are likely to see further 
weakening in consumer sentiment and purchasing power from an already weak place. 
Finally, with respect to inflation, the latest reading suggests that core PCE prices rose 
about 1.6 percent over the 12 months ending in July, and monthly readings on core inflation from 
April to July were higher than in the first quarter, consistent with our earlier assessment that 
much of the weakness seen early in the year was transitory. Nonetheless, inflation continues to 
fall short of our 2 percent objective. In looking ahead, even with the expected boost to inflation 
from increased tariffs, the staff projects that core inflation will move up to only 1.7 percent by 
the end of the year. 
Meanwhile, market-based measures of inflation compensation have declined since our 
previous meeting, along with the latest reading of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Survey 
of Consumer Expectations and the preliminary September reading of the Michigan survey. The 
deterioration of the balance of risks suggests to me that a further small adjustment to the policy 

stance is appropriate, and we’ll have the opportunity to discuss that tomorrow. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me just say a brief word, as many of you 
have commented on the Saudi situation. This is based on discussions with our contacts and the 
work of our team in Dallas. Obviously, it goes without saying that 5 million barrels a day is an 
enormous outage. Five percent of the world’s output is substantial. Having said that, we are 
pretty well convinced, and our contacts are convinced, that Saudi is going to do everything they 
can to get this 5 million barrels a day of production back online. The thing that they have not 
been particularly transparent about is exactly the extent of the damage and what exactly was 
damaged, and that’s why the world is very uncertain about how long it will take. 
If we had to guess, our base case is, if you look out three months from now—not a month 
from now, but three months from now—our best sense is, most likely, they will have restored 
most of the outage. But you will probably have embedded in the global oil price $5 to $7 just 
because a greater cognizance now sort of woke people up. There is greater security and 
geopolitical risk in the price of oil, and we should probably get used to that just being embedded. 
For those who are hopeful this might increase U.S. production, we are a little bit skeptical 
on that so far. And, just to remind you of the context, U.S. production growth in 2018 was 
1.8 million barrels. This year it’s 1 million barrels. We think next year it will be ½ million 
barrels. The reason for the substantial decline is, in light of capital discipline and a little bit more 
sluggish oil price, shale firms are not spending as much money on cap-ex, and they are just 
simply completing these so-called DUCs, drilled but uncompleted wells. 

We think, based on discussion with our contacts, they would need to see more evidence 
of persistence in this elevated oil price for them to say, “We want to gear up cap-ex.” And the 
reason they are hesitant is, they are under such pressure by capital providers because their stocks 
have underperformed. So we think it’s too soon to say. 
In terms of U.S. real GDP effect, the good news is, the U.S. economy is structurally much 
less sensitive to the price of oil than it was even 10 or 15 years ago. And, obviously, because we 
produce more ourselves, we’re more balanced between the cap-ex effect and the consumer 
effect. So, I guess, net–net of this, if our best guess—and unless there is some escalation, then 
you can forget everything I just said. If there is an escalation and you see much higher prices of 
oil, we’ve got a different situation. But our best guess is, as we look out three months from now, 
you just have a somewhat higher price of oil and a similar situation as we’ve got right now. This 
is unlikely, though, to create great strain globally, but it probably isn’t going to be a boon to the 
U.S. energy industry either unless something new happens that hasn’t already happened. So 
that’s our comment. We’ll keep you updated on that. 
Regarding our own real GDP forecast in Dallas, it’s very similar to the Tealbook—a little 
bit more than 2 percent growth, supported by a strong consumer but reflective of weakness in 
manufacturing and weak business investment. And this translates, as the Tealbook points out, 
into a deceleration into the second half of the year to stand at 1.7 percent. 
The Texas story I won’t go into. It’s very similar—strong first half growth, weaker 
second half growth. But that’s not surprising, given that trade plays a big role in the Texas 
economy, and certainly the trade uncertainty plays a key role in cap-ex also. We do note one 
thing in our surveys which struck me. To our special question about being able to pass on cost 

increases in the form of prices, a much higher percentage of the firms reported an inability to 
pass on cost increases in terms of price increases—a noticeable jump this month. 
So what we’re debating and we are all talking about here is the deceleration in global 
growth and weakness in manufacturing, which is only 11 percent of the U.S. economy, and we 
know that. Will that intensify primarily because of heightened trade uncertainty? And will this 
weakness seep into other aspects of the U.S. economy—which, right now, are strong—which 
will cause growth to be weaker than we’re currently forecasting? 
We’re heartened by the strong consumer. But we view it as more of a coincident 
indicator, and the consumer is underpinned by a strong jobs market. And the question we’re 
asking is, does the weakness in manufacturing and global growth ultimately cause businesses to 
retrench sufficiently that, over the next several months, we start to see weakness in the job 
market, and this one term will start to dim consumer confidence and lead to a weakening in 
consumer spending? That’s what we’re watching. We don’t pretend to know the answer to that, 
but that’s what we’re concerned about. 
In that regard, I will comment on one last thing, which is the yield curve. One of the 
things we think has been helpful to the U.S. economy this year has been the enormous rally 
along the entire Treasury yield curve. We think this has provided a substantial stimulus to U.S. 
businesses and the economy generally, in the form of lower costs of credit. And we believe the 
U.S. economy is right now reaping some of the benefits of that easing. The question we are 
debating related to the yield curve is, given that the easing has already occurred in the form of 
the yield curve coming down, what’s the harm in allowing the federal funds rate to stay above 
most of the Treasury yield curve? 

For that, my team and I have gone back and looked, as some of you have commented on, 
at every inversion we can detect in the postwar period, particularly in the past 50 years. And the 
only comment I will make in taking an unscientific look, the only thing I would observe is, even 
though every case is different, I don’t see a single example in which, once this has occurred, the 
Treasury curve has moved up fully to meet the federal funds rate. In every case I have looked at, 
it’s always been the case that the federal funds rate has eventually had to move down. And I say 
“eventually,” and I’m particularly thinking about 2006—it took a while for that to happen. And 
the reason—now going back and looking, I can see why it takes a while. 2006 is a good 
example. Strong current conditions entice observers to dismiss the inversion. 
So, given I’m not smart enough to know how the future is going to turn out, my team and 
I have come to a few conclusions about what we do have conviction. First of all, having looked 
back over the previous periods, I think it’s a mistake to rely heavily on the thought that this time 
is different. Second, I am convinced that if the federal funds rate stays above the curve for long 
enough so the financial intermediaries cannot borrow short and lend long and make a sufficient 
spread, this is eventually going to cause a tightening of financial conditions. 
That does not mean that easy financial conditions won’t persist for some number of 
months. I think they will. But it’s my judgment that financial conditions will eventually tighten. 
And talking extensively, for example, to banks and other institutions in our District, I can see 
they are already starting to move, on the margin, more money into the federal funds rate, and 
they’re raising the bar for lending. We’ll see if that continues. 
Others, and I have joined them, have flagged the worry about excesses in balances in the 
economy due to low rates, particularly the growth in the level of corporate debt. I’m very 
sympathetic to that concern. However, I believe that the dramatic move down in 5- and 10-year 

rates has already occurred and has already created the incentives for borrowing to finance 
mergers and share repurchases. Basically, for lack of a better term, the horse has already left the 
barn on that. In fact, I believe that a setting of the federal funds rate that’s too tight may actually 
depress the longer end of the curve and increase the incentives for corporate borrowing. In other 
words, if we have too tight a setting for the federal funds rate, I believe that has a negative effect 
on the level of the 10-year rate. And I think recent corporate bond issuance, which has been 
substantial, has been a case in point of that. I think getting the yield curve on a proper slope will 
do more, I’m hopeful, to ultimately reduce the incentives for excessive borrowing. But I don’t 
think at this stage that the federal funds rate being above the curve or lowering it is going to do 
much to increase incentives for borrowing. I think it may work in the opposite direction. We 
can discuss that more, and I’m sure we will over dinner. 
Lastly, I believe an upwardly sloping curve is not going to happen by the FOMC doing 
nothing. If anything, doing nothing, I think, may further invert the curve, which will create 
greater impediments to borrowing short and lending long and ultimately lead to a tightening in 
financial conditions. I believe it’s going to take action by us to adjust the policy rate. I believe 
this action may seem incongruous with current, relatively decent GDP growth in loose financial 
conditions, but I believe this action is essential to a forward-looking risk-management approach, 
which acknowledges that clear skies right now is not a great forward indicator of conditions 12 
to 18 months from now. I believe the yield curve is one forward indicator in the context of weak 
global growth and manufacturing weakness, which we should be taking into account as a factor 
in our decisionmaking at the FOMC. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor—a two-hander from President Bullard. 

MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President Kaplan, I just wanted to follow 
up on the oil comments. You said that we are taking 5 percent of global oil production off the 
market. You also said that you didn’t think the United States would be the marginal producer. 
So where is the 5 percent going to come from, according to your analysis, over the next 90 days? 
MR. KAPLAN. According to what our contacts are observing, first of all, the Saudis 
have some amount in reserve. Second, they are saying publicly that they think they can get most 
of this restored in the next 30 days. Until they do, though, I’m very confident you’re not going 
to see the shortfall made up by the United States. Even if people pushed the button today, most 
of our contacts tell us it would take a good six to eight weeks to be able to ramp up production 
more. So we’re just going to have to weather this situation heavily based on observing what 
OPEC and Saudi do to rectify this, at least for the next 30 days. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I’ll echo what many others have noted 
before me—that the data have continued to indicate that the economy remains strong. On labor, 
the employment reports released since July suggest that we have continued strength in the labor 
market. The unemployment rate has maintained historic low levels. The increases in payroll so 
far this year are slower than last year, but the pace of job creation remains healthy and sufficient 
to accommodate the growing labor force. There are other positive signs in the employment data: 
The unemployment rate for African Americans moved below the low levels recorded before the 
past recession, and, in fact, the level in August was the lowest on record. We saw further 
increases in entry to the labor force, and the labor force participation rate for individuals aged 25 
to 54 is now well above its levels before the previous recession. In addition, the share of workers 
employed part time but preferring to work full time is trending down. 

In contrast with previous years, the healthy demand for labor appears to be feeding 
through to higher wages. Anecdotally, I have heard reports from several firms in different 
sectors and regions that they are expanding bonuses, vacation time, flexible schedules, and other 
benefits in an effort to attract, retain, and hire new workers. Yet we’ve not seen those higher 
labor costs feeding through to consumer price inflation as they typically have in the past. The 
changing relationship between labor market tightness and price inflation continues to be one area 
that we continue to watch. The strong labor market is also driving wage gains that are 
supporting consumer spending growth. And, other than the recent drop in the Michigan survey 
measure of consumer sentiment, at this point, there is little to suggest that the recent economic 
uncertainties are having a material effect on consumer attitudes. In all, I remain optimistic that 
consumption growth will continue to rise at a healthy pace with a strong labor market. 
Recently, there has been further downgrading in the outlook for business investment, 
with the weakness centered on manufacturing firms, especially those with higher export shares. 
Readings on business optimism both here and abroad have continued to deteriorate, and in the 
agriculture sector, the outlook remains guarded. There is still some uncertainty about the effects 
unusually wet weather and late planting will have on crop production this year. Earlier in the 
year, reduced crop yield expectations pushed up prices for some farm commodities, but more 
recently we have seen renewed downward pressure on prices from global oversupply, weak 
export demand, and reports of better-than-expected crop yields. 
As I have noted during previous meetings, agricultural producers are already facing 
intense financial pressures, given the increase in carryover debt from preceding years and higher 
input costs. But this carryover debt has continued to rise for many borrowers, and many 
producers have been forced to restructure short-term debt on long-term, multiyear repayment 

terms because of cash flow shortages. The sole bright spot is the USDA payments, allowing 
some of them to continue to make their loan payments. Even though recent reports on 
agricultural trade appear to be more supportive, conditions in the ag sector will remain 
challenging, and a longer-term concern is that opportunities to continue exporting farm products 
to China have likely diminished, given the emergence of trade replacement routes. 
On the price side of our dual mandate, the incoming information is consistent with staff 
expectations that weak inflation readings early in the year were transitory and inflation would 
pick up in the second half. The staff’s current estimate of the 12-month change in the core PCE 
price index in August is now 1.7 percent and is expected to hold through the end of the year. 
Given earlier declines in energy prices, headline inflation is tracking slightly lower, though 
recent events may affect this. 
Despite the recent volatility in financial markets and the uncertainty surrounding trade, 
my outlook for the domestic economy has not changed since our July meeting. We’re essentially 
meeting our goals of maximum employment and price stability, and this has continued with 
support from monetary policy accommodation and our consistent message that we’ll take the 
necessary steps to sustain the expansion. The underlying risks to the outlook have continued to 
evolve, and, most notably, the outlook for global economic growth appears more fragile than 
before. We continue to monitor changes in trade policy, which seem likely to continue. China’s 
economic performance has also deteriorated, further complicating the outlook. And, finally, 
there are still major risks surrounding developments in the United Kingdom and the likelihood of 
a “no-deal” Brexit. And although the effect of these headwinds has been modest to this point, 
they will continue to factor into my outlook for U.S. economic performance. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The 10th District economy continues to 
expand at a moderate pace, and our business contacts remain generally optimistic about the 
outlook. However, a clear dichotomy has emerged between the region’s manufacturing and 
service sectors. According to our surveys, manufacturing activity has contracted in each of the 
past two months while service-sector activity continues to expand. District employment growth 
in recent months was mostly due to increases in service sectors. Our manufacturing contacts, 
including those in the aircraft sector, report that they are maintaining current staffing levels but 
eliminating overtime. Tight labor market conditions continue to support real wage increases in 
consumer spending. Most contacts expect to see similar or higher wage increases in 2020 
relative to increases observed in 2019. 
Business contacts continue to highlight weaker global demand and tariffs as concerns. 
District exports to China are down 20 percent from a year earlier. With regard to trade policy, 
our contacts expect trade tensions to persist over the next 6 to 24 months and expect negative 
effects from the September round of U.S. tariffs on Chinese imports. Recent reports that 
soybeans and pork would be exempt from the step-up in tariffs offer little relief to the ag sector 
in the District, where the outlook remains subdued. Crop prices declined notably in the third 
quarter based on production estimates, and, as Governor Bowman noted, government payments 
are expected to offer notable but temporary support to farm finances. 
Finally, oil and gas drilling activity in the region continues to soften, as oil prices moved 
lower and remain well below average prices needed to substantially increase activity as reported 
in our energy survey. The outlook for this sector is subdued, as growth in petroleum 

consumption is slowing globally, with noted additional downside risks to oil markets and oil-
producing regions if China’s economy slows further. 
For the national economy, my outlook is relatively unchanged from our July meeting: 
Incoming data suggest that the economy is expanding at a moderate pace. While the historical 
revisions released in August seem consistent with the view that growth momentum has slowed 
over the past year, the most recent data continue to indicate that the economy has been growing 
at an above-trend rate in recent years. My SEP submission calls for growth to stabilize near 
trend heading into next year and the unemployment rate to remain relatively stable over the next 
couple of years. Solid growth in household spending continues to be the primary driver of 
overall growth in the economy. Stronger-than-expected spending on durable goods in July, 
together with the solid figure on auto sales in August, point to a resilient consumer that remains 
willing to spend on big-ticket items despite the ongoing trade situation. Additionally, the 
personal savings rate remains stable at a relatively high level and is supportive of consumption 
growth. 
Tight labor markets continue to underpin consumption growth and bolster my outlook for 
consumption. The latest reading from the NFIB survey suggests finding qualified workers is 
becoming increasingly difficult. The percent of respondents citing finding qualified workers as 
their number one problem hit a 46-year record high in July. As labor markets have tightened, the 
momentum in job gains has slowed. Although the economy added, on average, 150,000 jobs per 
month over the past six months, which is still comfortably above the threshold needed to keep up 
with population growth, I anticipate some deceleration in payrolls during the second half of this 
year. This outcome is consistent with my modal outlook, which calls for employment growth to 
slow to levels more consistent with the pace of labor force growth by the end of 2020. 

While consumption and employment remain bright spots in the economy, business 
investment has weakened alongside deterioration in manufacturing activity and bears close 
watching as a harbinger of future economic activity. The ISM manufacturing index fell below 
50 last month, driven largely by the decline in the new export orders subcomponent. A weak 
global growth outlook, combined with trade policy uncertainty and tariffs, will weigh on 
domestic manufacturing and remain a headwind to equipment investment. 
Given these global dynamics, my outlook calls for inflation to remain low and stable, 
although I see some potential that the latest round of tariffs could generate temporary inflationary 
pressure. Since the first round of tariffs went into effect last year, goods prices and the PCE 
price index have continued to fall as the dollar has appreciated. However, this latest round of 
tariffs is larger in dollar terms and affects goods for which it may be more difficult for 
households to find substitutes. That has the potential to push inflation higher, albeit temporarily. 
While my modal outlook calls for growth to stabilize near trend heading into next year, 
risks around the outlook for real activity and inflation remain tilted to the downside. These risks 
include the pending sales tax increase in Japan, the disorderly Brexit, further slowdown in China 
or the euro area, and ongoing trade tensions and tariffs. I continue to monitor the data carefully 
for signs that these risks either materialize or sufficiently affect business and consumer 
confidence so as to undermine the expansion and the Committee’s objectives. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. My outlook is largely unchanged relative to our 
July meeting, and my baseline economic projections remain largely intact, little changed from 
our June SEP submission. The incoming data continue to point toward an economy that is 
currently achieving our dual mandate, and that solid performance is largely reflected in reports 

from my District. Sentiment from Sixth District businesses has remained largely positive on 
balance. Contacts continue to report that activity is on track to meet—or, in some cases, 
exceed—targets that were expected at the outset of the year. This is particularly true for contacts 
in or connected to the domestic retail sector. According to a contact representing one of the 
largest outdoor advertising companies in North America, demand is “on fire,” especially in the 
Southeast. 
In our discussions with contacts, we take special care to ask about firms’ internal data 
analytics and assessments of what they have found to be leading indicators of business activity. 
Whether driven by hard data or sentiment and experience, we are hearing very few reports of any 
expectations regarding a material near-term downshift in household spending. That view is 
predicated on continued solid employment performance and ongoing gains in household income. 
In this regard, I have yet to detect anywhere some signs that hiring is beginning to deteriorate. 
Most firms continue to note tight conditions across most labor market segments. 
I’ll recount one notable anecdote. An employment screening company based in Alabama 
relayed that their largest account, a national casual dining chain, has removed nearly every 
hurdle to employment beyond filling out an application. [Laughter] In particular, this chain has 
recently moved to an “apply and start the same day” model [laughter] for many of its positions, 
and this does not appear to be an isolated phenomenon. The same employment screening 
company also noted that in the trucking and transportation industry, firms are increasingly 
running just the required motor vehicle record check rather than a more thorough criminal 
background check. 
More generally, employers making adjustments to hiring practices, compensation 
schemes, and working conditions to cope with challenges in attracting and retaining workers in 

the current environment remains a persistent theme. Consistent with aggregate data, annual 
wage increases for District firms remain in the 3 to 4 percent range, and, perhaps in part due to 
growing momentum across industries to increase minimum hourly wages to $15 per hour, there 
has been a more pronounced pickup in wage growth for lower-skilled positions. 
Regarding inflation, trimmed mean measures of underlying inflation—whether they are 
PCE or CPI based—have been trending very close to target for some time now. Even through 
the first three months of the year when core PCE inflation had softened, the trimmed mean 
inflation measures held up near target, which I saw as a signal that the weakness in the core was 
likely transitory and driven by idiosyncratic factors. Indeed, the latest data reinforce that 
position. Translating August’s CPI and PPI component data into a PCE basis suggests that core 
PCE prices will increase at an annualized rate of around 2 percent, bringing its annualized 
growth rate over the past five months to 2.2 percent. So I think Julia’s test is in trouble. It does 
not look to me that inflation is currently muted relative to our objective. In light of relatively 
tight labor market conditions, coupled with an expectation that inflation expectations will remain 
anchored at mandate-consistent levels, I continue to expect that underlying inflation will remain 
at 2 percent. In this regard, my reading of the situation mirrors that expressed today by 
Presidents Mester and Barkin, among others. 
One decidedly negative aspect of the current economic picture is businesses’ apparent 
lack of appetite for capital investment. Although it is evident, a priori, that slowing global 
conditions, trade tensions, and increasing tariffs are contributing factors to the slowdown in 
capital spending, there are some potentially mitigating factors to consider. First, as noted by the 
staff today, the drag from Boeing’s suspension of the 737 Max shipments appears to be a 
significant factor pulling down equipment spending. Excluding aircraft, equipment spending 

expanded 3 percent over the first half of the year instead of the 0.3 percent as indicated by 
overall equipment spending in the category. 
Second, if we assume that the 2018 tax reform had an effect on capital spending at all, 
that effect likely manifested itself in firms pulling forward spending into 2018 that otherwise 
would have occurred this year. So the benchmark baseline is a more difficult level. 
And, third, while trade policy tensions and tariffs are providing a drag, it is one that I 
would still characterize as modest. Our survey data suggest that tariffs have subtracted about 
3.2 percent from private-sector investment spending over the first half of the year, and if this 
drag persisted for the entire year, it would amount to just $90 billion off a nominal $2.9 trillion 
of private-sector investment spending. More broadly, with regard to tariffs, most survey 
respondents and contacts indicated that trade policy has not directly resulted in forecast revisions 
or a significant downshift in 2019 activity. 
Let me close by making a final point. While businesses still appear to be forging ahead 
on current investment projects and hiring plans, I do get the sense that many of my contacts are 
preparing for the proverbial shoe to drop. Myriad uncertainties, ranging from escalating trade 
conflicts to a disorderly Brexit to volatility in financial markets to the unfair prospects of what 
the upcoming election cycle will bring, are weighing on the collective psyche of firms in my 
District. 
This cycle, there were an increasing number of reports of firms engaging in contingency 
planning and attempting to gird themselves against these downside risks. Along lines very 
similar to what President Daly reported, plan B’s are getting much closer to companies’ desks 
and activation. This is especially true with regard to escalating trade tensions, where firms are 
spending a substantial amount of resources on tariff mitigation, including contingency planning, 

supply chain reconfiguration, onshoring of some operations, stockpiling inventories, and 
frontlining activity. The downside of this redistribution of activity is that it employs resources 
that could have otherwise been engaged in productive activities. But contingency planning 
arguably leads firms to becoming more resilient if any of these uncertainties become a reality. 
To sum up, I’ve left my baseline projections intact and continue to see economic 
performance as hitting our mandates. I do see the risks as modestly tilted toward the downside in 
the face of a multitude of uncertainties. I leave for tomorrow an explanation of how this modest 
tilt informs my view of the appropriate stance of policy, so stay tuned. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. A two-hander. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I’ve got to ask Stacey, because there’s been a lot of 
discussion about how to read the inflation data. What you said and what you presented was that 
when converting the August CPI and PPI data into August PCE that you’re expecting PCE 
inflation to actually be lower than you had previously— 
MS. TEVLIN. Right. Well, the change would be 1.7 percent. That’s what we— 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Right. So it’s actually— 
MS. TEVLIN. A downward revision. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. A downward revision, in terms of both that month and also 
your view on the 12-month change for December. Okay. It seems to me that the change in the 
information is actually a little bit lower inflation, not higher inflation, from a 12-month picture. 
MS. TEVLIN. It sounded like Atlanta had a different translation, and that maybe we 
could talk a little bit— 
MR. BOSTIC. Yes. I think it’s unclear what the right answer is, and we should confirm 
what our methodologies are and come to an agreement on what the appropriate outcome is. 

VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I just wanted to make sure I understood that we were talking 
about the same thing. 
MR. BOSTIC. Yes. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Like President Bostic and, I think, most of my 
compatriots of the “map tribe” [laughter]—Vice Chair Williams is wondering where the flags 
are—my near-term outlook remains about unchanged since the SEP in June. I will note, as an 
aside, that at the break, a colleague, who shall be nameless, pulled me aside to observe that, 
given the discussion of Latin America, it appeared that a consequence of my long period of work 
with Joe Gruber seemed to be that my indefatigable and unreasoning optimism seemed to be 
rubbing off on Joe—a development that this person viewed with some alarm. [Laughter] In any 
event, I continue to see reasonably robust growth this year—only a gradual deceleration going 
forward. I am encouraged by the continued strength of consumption and a labor market that, 
while easing up a bit, remains very solid. I continue to expect inflation to slowly pick up over 
the next few years. It’s not going to deviate meaningfully from target. 
All that said, I do see, like, I think, everyone here, an increasingly fragile outlook. Risks 
and uncertainty seem especially elevated surrounding both trade policy and geopolitical 
developments—this weekend’s disruptions to oil supplies. More fundamentally, I also see 
reasons to temper my optimism regarding the long-term outlook. In particular, I have been 
discouraged by the weakness of business fixed investment. As I’ve said in previous meetings, 
my relatively robust outlook for potential growth reflected a basic belief that the investment 
slump that had characterized 2015 and 2016 had been broken, that tax cuts and wise regulatory 

changes would revitalize capital accumulation and growth. And in 2017 and 2018, I was 
encouraged as investment did, in fact, pick up. But the recent data suggest that this momentum 
has stalled, although I am very interested in the comments that President Bostic made about how 
one might look at that. Nonetheless, I think the prima facie interpretation of the data is that 
investment is slowing not just in the United States, but globally. And, with a weaker pace of 
capital accumulation, I have nudged down—it pains me to say it—both my estimates for 
potential growth and the longer-run interest rate. Not as low as some. 
VICE CHAIRMAN WILLIAMS. Would you repeat that, just for— [Laughter] 
MR. QUARLES. Though I remain on the high side of the Committee, I am not quite as 
high as I had been. [Laughter] I do think that a significant portion of the falloff in investment is 
related to increased uncertainty about the direction of U.S. trade policy. As Joe discussed in the 
international briefing, trade policy uncertainty is elevated. That is likely to be weighing 
significantly, I think, on growth and investment, which is consistent with the anecdotal reports 
from many Districts. When you look through the quantification, it seems as though the tariffs 
have worked to buffer and mitigate the boost that might have been expected from the tax cuts in 
2017—almost quantitatively exactly. Although the staff forecast is conditioned on no further 
tariff increases, like President Bullard, even I think that that will prove to be endearingly 
optimistic. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Governor Quarles, for 
taking it easy on me. Although I know you’ve brought props now—you’re just upping your 
game. [Laughter] 

Starting with the Ninth District economy, I would characterize it as stable. Our contacts 
report more chatter about recession but see little evidence of one in their own businesses: Most 
businesses report continuing plans to hire. There are continued complaints about skilled labor 
shortages but with no evidence of faster wage growth. I came across one company that said they 
had 75 open positions, and I said, “Well, if you’re not going to pay more, why stop at 75? Why 
not make it 500?” It’s like fishing with empty bait on your line—just put out more postings. 
Residential construction is strong, but the slowdown in manufacturing is becoming more 
widespread, and the agricultural sector continues to be weak. 
Regarding the national economy, as others have noted, core inflation remains below 
target, with 12-month core PCE inflation at 1.6 percent. You know, it is very tempting for me to 
look at many different measures, but I try to force myself to be consistent and look at the same 
measure, and I am focused on 12-month core PCE inflation. Market-based inflation expectations 
have slipped notably since July. The straight five-year, five-year from the TIPS is down about 
20 basis points. Market-based probabilities, based on option prices that we compute in 
Minneapolis, indicate the risk of inflation falling below 1 percent is about 10 times larger than 
the risk of inflation exceeding 3 percent. So I think the skew is clearly to the downside. And, as 
others have noted, the Tealbook now forecasts core PCE inflation at 1.8 percent over the entire 
forecast horizon, and this forecast is predicated on no recession. Obviously, with our discussions 
about frameworks, if there were a downturn and we did hit the lower bound on the policy rate, 
we would expect inflation to fall lower from there. 
With respect to the real side of the economy, as others have said, we continue to see a 
mix of strong consumption growth and very weak investment. The weak investment is driven by 
declining export demand and, in part, rising uncertainty over tariffs and the general outlook. 

Manufacturing PMIs declined below 50. Weak investment is especially striking in the context of 
very low borrowing costs. Firms are either highly uncertain or just plain pessimistic about the 
outlook. 
Now, weak investment has been hard to reconcile with the strong payroll growth. But as 
we talked about earlier, it seems like the payroll growth has not been as strong as we thought it 
was. Preliminary estimates suggested that job gains have been running about 40,000 per month 
lower than we thought, which, to me, is a big adjustment. And payroll growth appears to be 
slowing. After the annual revisions, job gains average around 190,000 in 2018 and 150,000 
more recently, and the Tealbook is forecasting only 120,000 for the later half of this year. That, 
to me, is a notable slowdown. I know the ranges of estimates, what we need to keep up with 
population growth, is between 80,000 and 120,000 a month. 
So, at the high end, if the staff is right, the basic labor market is not going to be tightening 
at the end of this year. It is just going to be treading water—which, to me, is a notable 
deceleration from a few years ago. And this slowdown, in my mind, does not seem to be 
because we have reached maximum employment. I would expect wage growth to be picking up, 
and we are not seeing wage growth picking up. To me, it more likely reflects an underlying 
slowing of economic activity that is consistent with the slow business investment. You know, 
businesses are nervous, and they are going to be nervous about investing and nervous about 
hiring. Those two stories, at least, seem to hang together. So it seems like momentum has 
slowed in the U.S. economy. 
For the global economy, as others have noted, risks to the outlook from weak global 
growth and trade uncertainty are high and rising. The Tealbook has revised down the foreign 
economic outlook yet again. Chinese exports and imports have declined year on year. The 

German and U.K. economies shrank in Q2, with little progress on Brexit. Foreign central banks 
are loosening monetary policy, and the OECD composite leading indicators continue to decline. 
The uncertainty around trade frictions remains the largest domestic risk to the outlook, and sharp 
declines in long-term rates since July mean the yield curve is now flashing more red than yellow. 
I share my colleagues’ concerns about the yield curve. I said publicly that I think this time is 
different—they’re the most dangerous words in economics. I continue to believe that. 
In terms of the current policy stance, is it expansionary or contractionary? Obviously, 
there is great uncertainty around both the current and long-run neutral interest rates. But if we 
just look at where yields are pricing today, with the five-year TIPS currently yielding less than 
25 basis points, if we assume a 25 basis point neutral real rate and inflation of 1.6 percent, which 
indicates a neutral nominal rate of 1.85 percent, compared with the effective federal funds rate of 
2.1 percent—or a little higher than that today, I guess—that tells me that policy is a little bit 
contractionary today. Another way to look at that is, look at the slope of the yield curve. The 
fact that it’s inverted out to five years yields the same conclusion. Monetary policy is likely 
somewhat contractionary, and I don’t think the economic fundamentals warrant contractionary 
policy. So, in sum, inflation remains below target. It seems likely to remain below target for the 
foreseeable future. The global economy is weak, with a lot of downside risk. Current policy 
seems to be mildly contractionary, and I don’t think that’s appropriate. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The economic expansion is showing 
signs of slowing in the face of intensifying global headwinds. Real GDP growth has shifted 
down to about its trend rate, and job growth, although still solid, is clearly decelerating as well. 
And I would like to echo the remarks of President Kashkari about how much it is slowing toward 

trend, given the revisions to past data and what we’ve seen recently. The song remains the same. 
Faltering global growth, accompanied by trade and geopolitical uncertainties, increasingly weigh 
on manufacturing, investment, and exports, while consumer spending continues to be buoyant. 
The strength of consumer spending has caused me to dig into that a little bit deeper, and I think 
one piece of information that is relevant here is, there seems to be a surge in spending on home 
furnishings and home improvement in the Hudson Valley of New York. [Laughter] I’m 
concerned that this might just be that this surge is temporary, but my interlocutor in the District 
says, “No, this is going to go on for a long time.” [Laughter] 
Inflationary pressures remain muted despite the various crosscurrents and dramatic 
swings in news headlines and markets. My projection, like many others, has not changed much 
from the one that I submitted in June. For the record, I am SEP participant number three. So 
this unchanged economic outlook obscures a darkening of the economic landscape that did lead 
me to write down a somewhat more accommodative path for policy. Business fixed investment 
and exports are in decline. Manufacturing production has been contracting through most of the 
year, and the latest ISM manufacturing index indicates that conditions are unlikely to improve 
over the near term. In fact, seen through the lens of the New York Fed’s nowcast, the negative 
surprises in the ISM manufacturing index for July and August translate into a sizable drag on 
third-quarter GDP growth. The nowcast currently stands at 1.6 percent. Together, these 
developments suggest that slowing global growth and uncertainties related to trade and 
geopolitical risks are already taking a toll on the sectors of the domestic economy that were most 
exposed in international trade. And the question going forward is, how will the divergence 
between robust consumption and a strong service sector on the one hand and weak investment in 
manufacturing on the other be resolved? 

The good outcome in which these uncertainties are resolved in a relatively benign manner 
seems increasingly unlikely, whether from Brexit, trade policy tensions, unrest in Hong Kong, 
the debt crisis in Argentina, or the recent attacks on Saudi Arabia. In fact, you know you are in 
trouble when the one sliver of good news comes from Italian politics. 
The developments in financial markets reinforce this view. Even with last week’s 
rebound, Treasury yields have fallen quite a bit, leading to a further flattening of the yield 
curve—a pattern that has occurred for sovereign yields in many economies. Financial market 
contacts point to downside risks to global growth, escalating trade policy tensions, and 
disappointing global data as the primary drivers behind the declines. In this regard, the memo on 
the out-of-sample recession forecasting performance of various yield curve models is sobering. 
And I would point to page 8 of the memo, which looks at the recession probabilities of some of 
the best forecasting models. So this is the probability of the U.S. economy transitioning to a 
recession over the next 12 months. The probabilities based on these models generally range 
from 60 to 80 percent. 
Now, like Presidents Kaplan and Kashkari, I agree with what they said. We all can come 
up with numerous reasonable reasons to dismiss these warnings in the hope that this time is 
different—I think you both said something to that effect—but it would be imprudent to totally 
disregard the signal that markets are sending of the potential for a recession. 
Regarding inflation, recent data have been broadly in line with my expectations, and 
that’s good news relative to the disappointing data that we saw in previous months. But I expect 
core PCE inflation to come in only around 1.7 percent for the year as a whole—consistent with 
the Tealbook or the latest forecast from Board staff—and then to rise to our objective over the 
next two years. 

The one ongoing concern is the decline in a number of measures of inflation 
expectations. The staff revisited the question of whether inflation expectations remain anchored 
and what conditions would cause them to become unmoored, and they were using data from the 
New York Fed’s Survey of Consumer Expectations, the SCE. The good news is, the medium-
run inflation expectations appear to have become better anchored in recent years. This is seen in 
a trend decline in the cross-sectional dispersion of three-year-ahead inflation expectations, along 
with a narrowing of uncertainty about future inflation that’s reported in the survey. A more 
cautionary tale from this analysis is that the anchoring of long-run inflation expectations may be 
vulnerable to a persistent decline in inflation. 
In July we fielded a special module of the SCE in order to elicit the sensitivity of 
participants’ longer-run inflation expectations to different situations. In particular, participants 
were asked how they would modify their five-year-ahead expectations of inflation based on the 
following statement: What if, in each of the past three years, inflation had been lower or higher 
than it actually was by 1 percent per year? Now, a clear pattern emerged. First, about 40 percent 
of the respondents did not change their longer-run inflation expectations at all. So we’ve got 
40 percent of people convinced of the rock-solid anchor. That’s progress. But for the other 
60 percent, there’s still some work to be done. When asked about three years of 1 percentage 
point lower inflation in the past, respondents lowered their inflation expectations 0.4 percentage 
point, on average, overall. That’s quite a sizable change in your long-run view of the inflation 
forecast based on three years of data. 
Interestingly, the response to higher past inflation was less than half as large in 
magnitude, suggesting a sizable asymmetry in the sensitivity of longer-run inflation expectations 
today. And we found corresponding results when we asked if inflation were persistently lower 

or higher for a whole decade. So my “takeaway” from this evidence is, we cannot take well-
anchored inflation expectations as a given. FOMCs over the past 40 years have worked tirelessly 
to anchor expectations, which has contributed to better economic outcomes, especially during 
downturns. Sustained deviations from our inflation goal risk undoing that important 
accomplishment to the detriment of our long-run economic health. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Thanks for a great round of comments. A whole lot has 
happened since we last met. Trade tensions have repeatedly boiled over only to return to a 
simmer. Geopolitical tensions have risen and fallen around Brexit, Hong Kong, Argentina, and 
Italy and have now flared in the Mideast. Markets have swung from complacency to panic and 
back. 
A lot has happened, but how much has really changed? Our challenge, as always, is to 
look through the volatility to identify and react to underlying trends and forces that are likely to 
affect our ability to achieve our dual mandate. While trade and geopolitical drama have been 
grabbing the headlines and moving financial markets, the hard macrodata have shown a less 
dramatic, but probably more consequential, erosion in the global outlook and, as I will discuss, 
some reason for concern in the United States. 
Global growth has continued to weaken, especially in Europe and China. Data revisions 
here in the United States reveal that growth of GDP and payroll employment was slower than 
had been reported in real time. In the United States, consumer spending is keeping the economy 
moving forward despite growing weakness in manufacturing, cap-ex, and exports; and inflation 
remains stubbornly below target. 
And while the labor market is clearly still in a strong position, I admit to being concerned 
about recent developments. If you take onboard the 500,000 job downward adjustment in 

payroll employment, as Governor Brainard did, you get 191,000 jobs per month in 2018, down 
from 223,000, which is still a solid performance. More concerningly, though, if you back out 
that adjustment for the first quarter of this year and then assume a 15,000 per month carry-
forward adjustment, you get payrolls this year down close to 130,000. 
Job creation has slowed more than expected, and I guess it’s still a bit above breakeven 
levels. And we’ve, of course, been expecting a decline to trend, as eventually must happen, I just 
wasn’t expecting it to arrive so suddenly after years of defying predictions. Moreover, most of 
our wage and compensation measures show a bit slower growth this year than last year. Job 
openings have moved off their highs. 
In sum, the labor market has not been as strong as was thought, and, for the first time in 
many years, there’s decent evidence that it’s no longer tightening. Now, this has happened 
before: We’ve had job growth, I guess, in the first half of 2016 that dropped quite low—150,000 
or in that range. And I understand it can also be about supply, because you’ve had an awful lot 
of job creation for a long time. I guess I would just say that it’s a moment that calls for 
vigilance. None of this is probably surprising in the 11th year of an expansion, but it just, to me, 
calls for heightened vigilance. 
With regard to inflation, core PCE inflation has come in slightly softer than expected, 
with a 1.7 percent baseline for this year, as Stacey just discussed, down from 1.9 percent. As 
wage growth weakens, upward pressure on inflation will also weaken, and inflation expectations 
remain low. The staff’s downward revision to their estimate of the natural rate of unemployment 
and upward revision to structural productivity makes sense to me, though I believe that the 
natural rate is even lower. Most of us have revised down our estimates of u* in recent months, 
and that could help account for the evidence we’re seeing of weaker upward pressure on wages 

and prices. And in the staff baseline, we don’t see inflation getting up to 2 percent at any time 
during the forecast through 2022. 
None of that is to deny that the economy is still in a good place. There’s no question 
about that. But the margins to absorb demand or supply shocks or a tightening of financial 
conditions have narrowed. We now see an economy growing at about its trend rate. The labor 
market may no longer be tightening. The forecast suggests that the odds that we never really 
reach symmetric 2 percent inflation during this cycle are increasing, and it would take no more 
than a modest further weakening in the jobs market to slow the main—perhaps only—engine that 
sustains this expansion, which is consumer spending. Moreover, that’s the baseline. 
Downside risks abound. Global growth could continue to weaken. The trade working 
parties appear to be trying to put together some sort of interim agreement that would address 
concerns, lower temperatures, and leave other concerns to continued negotiation. I personally 
think such an agreement might do a good deal to calm worries and improve sentiment around the 
world, but we don’t know whether that’s coming or not. If they do reach an agreement, we don’t 
know whether it will meet approval at the highest levels. If not, the process could easily swing 
back to recriminations and belligerence, and if that happens, I suspect it would be a significant 
blow to confidence and, ultimately, to the economy. In the meantime, I would say that trade 
policy uncertainty is weighing on the economic outlook. 
Much of the volatility in the financial markets seems to relate to developments regarding 
trade and global growth, and I’m not taking much signal from the round-trip behavior of long-
term sovereign yields except to note that portions of the yield curve remain inverted. And 
however much weight each of us individually might put on an inverted yield curve, I would 
guess that we could agree—I would certainly agree that it’s not a comfortable place to stay for an 

extended period. When I put all that together, the inflation and employment outlooks have 
slipped a bit since July. Downside global risks have increased a bit. I see the case for moving at 
this meeting as solid and as having strengthened since July. 
Looking ahead, and absent major changes in the outlook, I have written down another 
rate cut by the end of the year—although I don’t have a strong conviction on that at all—and I 
see a flat path from there forward through 2020. I realize that rate cuts, like any policy action or 
inaction, come with risks. Persistently lower rates could increase financial stability 
vulnerabilities. To me, given the low leverage, low funding risk, and low maturity 
transformation in the financial system, I don’t at this time consider these risks to be large enough 
to preclude easing. The possibility of higher inflation, of course, is actually more of a benefit 
than a risk, as it would mean a faster return of inflation to target. 
Finally, there is significant uncertainty about where the neutral rate is right now. Many 
of us have marked down our estimates this year, and policy is probably less accommodative than 
we had thought. In light of the asymmetric risks associated with the proximity of the effective 
lower bound, risk-management concerns, to me, suggest acting as though r* is at the lower end 
of the range of plausible values. 
As for communications tomorrow, if the policy decision goes as seems likely, I plan to 
emphasize in the press conference that the Committee is effecting an adjustment of policy to a 
somewhat more accommodative stance. I will say that we are not on a preset course. I will say 
that if the economy turns down sharply, we would, of course, respond aggressively, but that is 
not what we see or intend, based on the current situation. I look forward to hearing your views 
on policy tomorrow. Thank you. And with that, I propose we turn to Thomas Laubach for the 
policy briefing. 

MR. LAUBACH.7 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, a lot of the things 
that I am going to mention in my briefing have already shown up in one way or 
another during your go-round, so I hope it will be relatively easy. 
I will be referring to the handout “Material for the Briefing on Monetary Policy 
Alternatives.” As Stacey discussed in her briefing, the spending and labor market 
data we received over the intermeeting period have been consistent with an outlook in 
which real GDP growth slows to its estimated trend rate of around 1¾ percent, while 
payroll gains move down over time to a pace closer in line with unchanged resource 
utilization. As shown in the upper-left panel, the continued strength of the expansion 
rests increasingly on household spending. All three draft alternatives note that 
business fixed investment and exports have weakened. The four-quarter growth rates, 
the black and blue lines, peaked about a year ago and have declined substantially 
since. As a result, overall growth in real GDP has slowed considerably from a year 
earlier. Similarly, the unemployment rate, the black line in the panel to the right, has 
flattened out over the past year, and the three-month moving average of payroll gains, 
the solid green line, has stepped down notably since the start of the year. 
The deceleration to date is broadly in line with your own expectations: Your 
median projection of 2019 real GDP growth has been steady since March at a little 
above 2 percent, and you expect the unemployment rate to flatten out near its current 
level. But there are a number of risks that, if realized, might cause a sharper 
deceleration, and both the staff and most of you see risks to the outlook for economic 
activity as tilted to the downside. In addition, although most of you project core 
inflation to edge up to 1.9 percent or higher by the end of next year, presumably a 
weaker labor market would jeopardize this outlook. A key question for your policy 
decision and communications tomorrow is, therefore, which path for policy would 
best sustain the expansion so that inflation returns to 2 percent and the job market 
remains strong? And in light of the downside risks that many of you have discussed, 
the answer will likely involve a degree of risk-management considerations. 
A while ago, the staff reported on work suggesting that nonfinancial data help 
predict business cycle turning points over horizons of a few months, but that at a 
12-month horizon, financial variables such as yield curve spreads and the excess bond 
premium—a measure of the willingness of investors to bear credit risk—had greater 
predictive power. Recent staff analysis by Tyler Pike and Francisco Vazquez-Grande 
has revisited the predictive performance of a number of recession models, focusing 
on the real-time tradeoff between obtaining a higher signal when a recession is, in 
fact, coming but keeping low the rate of false positives. As it turns out, a model that 
uses both a yield spread and the excess bond premium is among the best-performing 
models on this criterion and outperforms a model that uses only a yield spread. The 
middle-left panel shows the excess bond premium as well as the long-term spread, 
defined as the spread between the 10-year and 3-month Treasury yield. As you know, 
the yield spread has been in negative territory for most of the time since late May and 
took a rather dramatic round trip over the intermeeting period. By contrast, the 
 
7 The materials used by Mr. Laubach are appended to this transcript (appendix 7). 

excess bond premium—which tends to increase before the onset of recessions—has 
remained low. 
The middle-right panel shows the probability of the economy being in recession 
sometime over the next 12 months based on either a model that uses information only 
from the long-term spread, the blue line, or from the long-term spread and the excess 
bond premium, the red line. I should note that models replacing the long-term spread 
with the near-term forward spread, popularized by our Board colleagues Eric 
Engstrom and Steve Sharpe, do, if anything, marginally better. If these series look 
somewhat more jagged than you are used to seeing, this is because they are out-of-
sample estimates: At each point in time, the model is estimated based only on data up 
to that point, and it does not use information from later historical observations. The 
latest probability estimates are based on the yield spread as of last Friday and on the 
excess bond premium, which we can calculate monthly, as of August. The yield 
spread–only model indicates a probability of recession over the next 12 months that is 
quite elevated, about 60 percent. By contrast, adding information from the excess 
bond premium reduces the odds of recession to about one-third, though these odds are 
notably higher than earlier in the year. 
The lower-left panel provides another perspective on why the yield spread, taken 
in isolation, may currently overstate the likelihood of recession. For each of the three 
most recent yield curve inversions, the light blue bars show the cumulative change in 
the 10-year yield over the 12 months before the first time of inversion, the what I will 
call “blue bars,” for lack of a more refined vocabulary, show the change in the 3-
month yield over the same 12 months, and the navy bars the change in the yield 
spread, which is the difference between the first two bars. As shown by the blue bars, 
the previous two inversions were preceded by larger increases in the 3-month yield, 
suggesting that more monetary tightening was winding its way through the economy 
around the time when the inversion occurred. This contrasts with the current 
inversion, which was largely set in train by a decline in the long end of the yield 
curve. The work by Eric Engstrom and Steve Sharpe suggests that the long-horizon 
forward rates embedded in long-term yields have less predictive power for business 
cycle turning points than the near-term forward rates. Hence, as far as recession 
signals are concerned, one could argue that not all inversions are created equal. 
As discussed in the lower right, the alternatives in front of you balance, in 
different ways, the still solid growth and strong labor market, on the one hand, and an 
incrementally weaker foreign outlook, muted inflation pressures, and elevated risks of 
a sharper slowing of the economy, on the other. Alternative B views another modest 
adjustment to the funds rate as appropriate to balance the risks around a continued 
positive outlook for growth and a return of inflation to 2 percent. It notes the 
remaining uncertainties and preserves a posture of watchful waiting. At the same 
time, by retaining the “contemplates” language and, more generally, by making few 
changes to the July statement, alternative B does not convey a sense of heightened 
concern about rising recession risks. 

Alternative C expresses fewer concerns about low inflation and risks to real 
activity by omitting the references to global developments and muted inflation 
pressures and consequently views that maintaining the current target range is leaving 
the positive outlook intact. That said, alternative C likewise notes the remaining 
uncertainties and retains the “monitoring” and “act as appropriate” language. 
Alternative A, by contrast, reduces the target range 50 basis points to mitigate the risk 
that inflation may fail to reach 2 percent on a sustained basis. Alternative A also 
signals in subtle ways a greater readiness to take further action by dropping the 
“contemplates” language and conveying greater concern about downside risks. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. That completes my prepared remarks. The July statement 
and the draft alternatives and implementation notes are shown on pages 2 to 11 of the 
handout. I will be happy to take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks very much. Questions for Thomas? President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am looking at the middle panel, right 
side. I just want to make sure I have the message correct here: The blue line uses just the spread 
variable, and the red line uses the spread variable plus the excess bond premium. You said that 
the red line is better than the blue line—is this correct? 
MR. LAUBACH. Correct. 
MR. BULLARD. But I’m following this picture, and it surely doesn’t look like it. I 
mean, there are false positives from the red line, including at the end of the 2007–09 recession, 
where it predicts that you’ll stay in recession, which isn’t what happened. And you get the false 
positive in 2004 and possibly the false positive in 2016, whereas the blue line correctly presages 
the recession and is about at the level today that it would be before a recession. 
MR. LAUBACH. One thing that works against the blue line is that it was declining 
pretty rapidly ahead of the onset of the 2008 recession. So, by this criterion that, you know— 
MR. BULLARD. But the goal is to be high 12 months ahead, right? 
MR. LAUABACH. That’s right. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay. 

MR. LAUBACH. But it fails to signal that toward the end of the recession, the economy 
will still be in recession, whereas the blue line sends a signal that there is going to be no more 
recession. So that’s basically how the criterion works. 
MR. BULLARD. That would be whether you want the criterion to be “I want to signal 
the onset of a recession” or “I want to signal the continuation of the recession.” 
MR. LAUBACH. Yes, the criterion is whether you are in recession any time during the 
next 12 months. And it’s right that if you switch that criterion, if you only ask “in 12 months” 
and not “what happens in between today and the next 12 months,” that can change the results. I 
don’t have results right now on that. But, in general, in the earlier work that I referred to that we 
sent to you in early 2016, that, too, suggested that if you ask the question “in 12 months,” for 
example, by Bayesian selection criteria, you also end up with the yield spread and EBP as doing 
very well. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. If you look back at the previous periods, frequently, the yield curve 
inversion was, the short rate was going up rapidly because monetary policy was tightening, not 
that the long rate was coming down. Do you think that these results would hold up if you 
conditioned for the stance of monetary policy? If you looked at r minus r*, right now we already 
have, arguably, an accommodative monetary policy, while in almost each of the previous 
examples, it was a period where we were trying to slow down inflation, so r minus r* was 
actually quite positive. Do you think these results adequately condition for the stance of 
monetary policy? And do you think the stance of monetary policy at this time is similar to those 
other instances? 

MR. LAUBACH. That is what the lower-left panel is trying to get a little bit at, in an 
admittedly very simplistic way. Because that does suggest that there was a larger increase in the 
3-month yield ahead over the 12 months prior to the inversion than in the most recent episode 
where the increase in the 3-month yield was actually relatively small. So that’s giving you the 
direction. Now, I confess, although I think r* estimates are obviously crucial [laughter], one 
would have to be pretty cautious about not using too much ex post information in computing the 
real rate gaps. You would really want to do that very cleanly in a way such that you don’t endow 
your r* estimates with knowledge of what comes later. But I think one can do that, and I haven’t 
done that yet. 
MR. KAPLAN. Can I just comment on that? 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Because we’re struggling—we’ve been talking about this same thing. 
And we didn’t have this study, but—and the thing that complicated this whole situation about, 
did it come from the front end or from the back end, is the fiscal stimulus, meaning, as we look 
back, I guess our thesis would be that the fiscal stimulus that passed in the fall of ’17 in our 
estimation—and I was guilty of this too—caused me to be more optimistic about the neutral rate. 
It caused me to be more aggressive about the stance of policy. 
As we look back on past inversions, I struggle to find a situation where you had a 
temporary—I don’t know, how would you call it—temporary fiscal stimulus that has waned now 
into ’19. And maybe the thesis is—and it’s hard to find a similar situation—maybe we 
overtightened, influenced by that fiscal stimulus. 
Now the Treasury yield curve has moved down much like it was before the fiscal 
stimulus, similar to ’16. And that’s why you’ve heard me say as we look at the setting of the 

federal funds rate, I think ’16 for us may be a more relevant year to look at than ’17 and ’18, 
because you had this fiscal stimulus that has since waned. I don’t know if that’s a valid 
argument, but that’s the way we’ve been thinking about it to try to fit this together. It’s the fiscal 
stimulus, I think, that complicated our job in ’17 and certainly in ’18. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the same topic, on the same chart—
the bottom left, the yield curve inversions—I’m just curious. Why did you look at a 12-month 
horizon? Because when I think about the flattening of the yield curve of the past few years, there 
has actually been a lot of tightening, and a lot of the flattening has taken place concurrent with 
the tightening of the Committee. It’s true that in the past 12 months there hasn’t been much 
tightening, but if you pick this window over the past three years, the bars might look very 
different. I’m just curious, is there a science behind why you picked a 12-month window for the 
snapshot? 
MR. LAUBACH. I confess, there wasn’t very much science behind that. It was because 
I was working essentially off this problem that we try to solve in the middle-right panel—
namely, to try to predict over the next 12 months— 
MR. KASHKARI. I see. 
MR. LAUBACH. —so that was what was drawing me to what was in greater proximity. 
MR. KASHKARI. But then, I guess—because one of the points that I’ve heard Eric 
make, and he made it just now, is, a lot of the flattening is on the back end. I don’t think that’s 
correct. I think a lot of the flattening has actually been on the front end, as the Committee has 
raised rates over the past three years. It’s true that in the past few months, the big change has 
been on the back end. But, in my view, a lot of the flattening has already come in because of us. 

CHAIR POWELL. Further questions or comments? [No response] Seeing none, thanks 
very much. A reception will begin immediately downstairs. We start tomorrow morning at 9:00. 
Thank you. 
[Meeting recessed] 

September 18 Session 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. Let’s go right into the policy go-round, 
beginning with Governor Clarida. Sorry—Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Can we just get an update on the repo operations this morning? 
CHAIR POWELL. I’m sorry. I apologize. Yes. 
MS. BRAINARD. We haven’t heard much about this. It seems pretty important. 
CHAIR POWELL. I apologize. That was what I meant to do. Over to you, Lorie. 
MS. LOGAN.
8 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be referring to the “Material for 
Briefing on Morning Briefing, September 18, 2019.” 
This morning, the effective federal funds rate—which reflects Tuesday’s activity 
in the federal funds market—“printed” at 2.3 percent, above the top of the target 
range. The SOFR “printed” at 5.25 percent, as shown in panel 1. 
Similarly to Monday, the distribution of trades in both the federal funds market 
and repo markets was widely dispersed and had a notable right tail. The 75th and 
99th percentiles of trades underlying the effective federal funds rate were 2.5 percent 
and 4 percent, respectively, according to preliminary data that we’re showing here. 
The 75th and 99th percentiles of activity underlying the SOFR were 5.85 percent and 
9 percent. These distributions can be seen in panels 2 and 3. 
Most repo is traded early in the morning, so much of yesterday’s SOFR activity 
reflected trading conditions before our operation. Federal funds volumes occur more 
evenly throughout the day, and therefore our operations had more influence on that 
rate. Rates in the Eurodollar market, which reflect some trades even later in the day, 
suggested softer conditions in the afternoon, and the 1st percentile of Eurodollar data 
suggested there was some unsecured trading below 2 percent late in the day. 
The announcement at 4 p.m. yesterday that the Desk would undertake another 
temporary open market operation this morning appeared to ease conditions further. 
The average spread between the SOFR and the effective federal funds rate, an 
indication of secured funding pressures implied by futures over the month of 
September, narrowed discretely by 4 basis points following the announcement. 
Today, money market conditions eased somewhat, although money market rates 
continue to remain elevated. Federal funds are currently trading at roughly between 
2.25 and 2.5 percent, and interdealer general collateral repo rates are trading around 
3 percent. Our contacts are reporting better liquidity and higher trading volumes this 
 
8 The materials used by Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 8). 

morning in the federal funds market, which has historically coincided with softening 
in the effective federal funds rate. 
In accordance with the FOMC Directive, the Desk performed a repo operation 
again this morning, as announced. The temporary open market operation had the 
same parameters as yesterday’s operation but occurred much earlier, at 8:15, and 
closed at 8:30 this morning. 
Primary dealers placed $81 billion of propositions, and $75 billion of propositions 
were awarded. $52 billion in Treasury collateral was accepted at a weighted-average 
rate of 2.25 percent, so that weighted-average rate was within the target range. These 
operation rates are considerably lower than yesterday’s rates—which may be another 
positive sign. 
We’ll continue to monitor conditions in money markets today. The Desk will 
conduct additional open market operations as needed to help maintain the federal 
funds rate within the target range. Although we expect conditions to soften as the 
payment shocks related to the tax date subside, it may take a couple of days for that to 
occur. Our expectation is that funding conditions may become strained again as 
September quarter-end approaches, and it seems possible that we would have to 
conduct temporary open market operations around this date as well. 
In this context, the staff assesses that a 5 basis point technical adjustment to 
interest on required reserves and interest on excess reserves may be appropriate at this 
time. If the Board were to take this action, it would bring the IOER rate to 20 basis 
points below the top of the target range and 5 basis points above the bottom of the 
range. 
Since Monday, market expectations of a technical adjustment at this meeting have 
increased, though some dispersion in views remains among market participants on the 
likelihood of this option versus other policy options, such as temporary open market 
operations or permanent open market operations, to begin to grow the portfolio in line 
with Federal Reserve liabilities. Some view a technical adjustment as a complement 
to the open market operations that we’ve been doing. 
I would note that the immediate effect from a technical adjustment may be 
relatively small, given the volatile trading conditions and short-term money market 
rates that we’ve seen this week. Nevertheless, as with the previous technical 
adjustments, it would further support trading in the federal funds market within the 
target range by providing more space for the effective federal funds rate to trade 
above the IOER rate but still within the range as reserves continue to decline in 
coming weeks. 
I should also note that a technical adjustment would reduce the spread between 
the IOER rate and the overnight RRP offering rate to 5 basis points. The Committee 
could consider today where to set the overnight RRP offer rate relative to the federal 
funds target range in order to mitigate the potential for substantial usage in the 

facility. For example, in reducing the IOER rate by 5 basis points, the Committee 
could today reduce the overnight RRP offer rate such that a 10 basis point spread is 
maintained below the Board’s intended setting of the IOER rate. In view of the firm 
level of repo and other money market trading, we do not anticipate that the narrower 
spread would notably increase usage in the facility at this time. However, doing so 
may lower the risk that rates will fall such that incentives shift and unsecured 
volumes decline. Doing so may also simplify today’s communications. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. That concludes our prepared remarks, and I’d be happy to 
take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks, Lorie. Any questions or comments? Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. I think the fact of tax payments and Treasury security issuance—
these were things that we knew or that were knowable. To what do you attribute the turmoil in 
this market? Why have the moves been so outsized, and why didn’t we have a better sense of it 
coming into this moment? 
MS. LOGAN. I think we did expect rates to firm with the payments, much like we saw 
in April when we had those tax payments, but we certainly didn’t expect them to trade like this. 
And our expectations were similar to those of market participants. 
I think the key issue is the distribution of reserves, as we’ve talked about. What we saw 
yesterday was that some of the institutions that do have excess reserves above what they’ve 
reported as their minimum comfortable levels didn’t increase their lending in repo even at these 
higher rates. So it’s possible that they’re just going to be more conservative on particular days 
than what they report to us about their behavior. And that distribution of activity turned out to be 
quite disruptive in money markets. 
Additionally, as you know, the Treasury is issuing significantly more debt, and the 
liquidity that may be required for that debt to be distributed on the settlement dates may be 
higher. We were seeing small stresses of these payment flow days and the settlement dates a 
year ago or two years ago, so it’s possible that the additional liquidity that was in the system then 

was providing just enough liquidity for these distributional issues. But it’s also possible that 
these conditions have changed and it’s not related to the overall level of reserves—it’s just 
related to the size of the settlement that we’re seeing in the Treasury securities market. And I 
think we’re just going to have to see how conditions evolve in the next few days, as well as how 
conditions evolve in the latter part of September, to get a better read on which one of those 
stories is more applicable. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Lorie, could you just give us a sense of, if 
we had a repo facility to complement the reverse repo facility, would that solve this problem, or 
would we still have the same kind of volatility? 
MS. LOGAN. I think we learned yesterday from the operation that we did that the 
counterparties that we have do intermediate. Some of the counterparties that we saw come to the 
operation most likely did not need the liquidity themselves—they onlent that liquidity. I suspect 
that if there had been a repo facility, that would have provided a lot of comfort at that rate, and 
that we would have seen the usage come and some of that liquidity would have been 
redistributed into the system. Whether it would have prevented the full volatility, I can’t say. I 
don’t think we know. But I do think that the liquidity that we did provide through this type of 
operation was very supportive to the market. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. I’ll defer. I see John has got his hand up, but I’ll defer to John and 
others. But I would just say, from a 100,000-foot point of view, I would rather the Fed be seen 
as not reacting to this but making arrangements that preempt this volatility to the extent we can, 

because I think it may prove to be, if it continues, a distraction and maybe even undermine our 
credibility. 
I don’t want to throw out a solution. Jim just threw out one about a standing repo facility. 
Maybe there are others that are more appropriate. I don’t want to prejudge matters. It may 
mean, over the horizon or even now, that our balance sheet, I think it’s sort of suggesting to me, 
is too small. And, certainly, market commentators have suggested that. But I think, from a 
stance point of view, this is an area in which, unless there’s some cost to doing it, I’d rather be 
preemptive: preempt this volatility, rather than react to it. 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Yes. I think that’s a really good way to frame the issue. I 
mean, getting back to President Bullard’s questioning, this question—If we had a standing 
facility in place, how would that change market dynamics?—is one that, obviously, we’re 
thinking through. But also, we’re learning from the experience of doing these temporary open 
market operations. The first one kind of came in, in reaction, but the one that we did today was 
announced the day before. Basically, it was fully subscribed at $75 billion. 
Over the next few days, I think we’re going to get a little bit better view of—with the Fed 
in there, basically doing something that’s kind of like a standing facility—how we’re 
performing; we’re going to learn about two things that are important. One is, how do the repo 
rates behave under these circumstances? You know, there’s this huge distribution of repo rates 
and funds rates. So we talk a lot about the median or the weighted average of things, but there’s 
just a lot of—as you see in these pictures, a distribution. So we’re going to learn about that. 
We’re also going to learn about how that passes through to the funds rate itself. I do 
think that, over the next few days and in just two weeks, we’re going to get more information 

about the market dynamics not only in terms of how it comes out of the shock, but also in terms 
of how our facilities—and, assuming we do change the rate on interest on reserves, how that 
affects things. But with that information and with that analysis, I do think that we will need to 
come back next month to, really, these basic questions. The really basic question is, what’s the 
right level of reserves to successfully implement an ample-reserves regime in the way that the 
Committee decided? And then, what are the actions that we, as a Committee, need to take in 
terms of organically growing our balance sheet, as we talked about, or getting to this right point? 
There has been a lot of market commentary—that is, for people who’ve been saying that 
we shrunk the balance sheet too much, they’re saying, “Told you so.” For sure, that’s out there. 
But I think we in the Fed have also been studying this very carefully. I think it would serve us 
well in the longer term to double down on the analysis and the market outreach, understanding 
what’s going on out there and then having a very informed discussion about, I think, the last 
stage of the normalization—which is really, what’s the right level of reserves, and how do we 
grow that? 
We are learning. As these events have unfolded, I think market participants were 
completely caught off-guard. We have been learning through that. So I think, at least from my 
perspective, this is going to be a relatively short period of intense study, assessment, and 
evaluation that should lead the Committee to figure out what are the last stages of the 
normalization. 
If anything, from my perspective—and others have different views on this, I’m sure—I 
think we want to get to the right level of reserves, consistent with the framework that we all 
agreed on, rather than setting up a system where we think that we’re going to be having these 

facilities, whether temporary open market operations or a standing facility, being the main tools 
to keep the rates low. So that’s my personal view on that. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Yes. I think that the framework that President Kaplan set out is a 
useful one. While I support the technical fix today, I’d much rather be in a framework that looks 
structurally sound. And in that regard, I’m just wondering whether having some emphasis on the 
message, “we’re looking at sort of resuming organic growth of the balance sheet soon,” in the 
press conference today—how you think that might affect market perceptions and whether that 
would be a stabilizing force. 
MS. LOGAN. My own perception on the basis of the commentary is that there will be 
some expectation that the Committee is closely monitoring the situation, has taken note, and may 
be seeing some signs that suggest that that level is getting closer. I think that’s the expectation 
that I’ve heard regarding the press conference today. 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes. Let me just say—this is really echoing what has already been 
said—we’ve adopted an abundant-reserves system, and we’ve said that means that we use our 
administered rates, and that will minimize this kind of thing, in terms of using open market 
operations, temporary open market operations, or, for that matter, a standing repo facility. 
Really, the tool here is to have the level of reserves right, so that we don’t have to do that. That’s 
sort of the definition of what an abundant-reserves regime is. 
I don’t plan to be shy about noting today that we’re learning about what the appropriate 
level of reserves is, and it may be lower than—we’ve done all of this work. I’ll talk about all of 
the work we’ve done—the surveys of market participants and such—and then say, “But we’ll be 
very carefully monitoring this situation and developments as we go forward, and we have a clear 

sense of where we want to get.” And I’ll also talk about, it may well mean that the balance sheet 
needs to begin to grow sooner than we had thought. I’m planning to be very candid about that. 
But the thing is, I think we have to go through this and probably go through what we 
learn at the end of September. If that means we need to start increasing the balance sheet, that’s 
what we’re going to do, because this is the regime we’ve said we were going to have, and we’re 
going to use it. We’re not going to be sitting here doing months and months of temporary open 
market operations. That’s not the regime we said we were going to adopt. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. I have a quick question. I’m curious: How do you “size” the 
$75 billion? And does the fact that it was fully subscribed mean that it was not big enough? 
MS. ZOBEL. There were $80 billion of propositions today, so I would say it was 
roughly in the range. I think yesterday we were thinking about what the day-over-day changes 
were in typical repo volumes, and we were sizing it that way. It was a learning exercise. We 
took rough metrics of what we know—how the repo market trades and behaves—and we “sized” 
the operation that way. I think we came in a little bit later in the trading session yesterday, so it 
was undersubscribed even though rates were elevated yesterday. This morning, coming in early 
in the trading session and seeing those results, I think we got it about the right level. 
MR. KASHKARI. And is the expectation that you’ll need to do this again tomorrow? 
MS. ZOBEL. I think we’re going to see how conditions evolve today and make that 
decision. I don’t think we’ve had the benefit of seeing how repo markets are trading after the 
operation. 
MS. LOGAN. Once we make that assessment in the next couple of hours, we would plan 
to announce today just to confirm to the market so they know first thing, coming in, that we 
would be there. 

CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you. A question, I think, in line with all of the good commentary 
here—the way to sort of craft it is, do we think that this is a normal-sized incident that we might 
be dealing with, almost like a cost of doing business for us as we probe for what the efficient 
level of the size of the balance sheet is? Or is it outsized relative to what we might experience? 
I think that might be a kind of question that you might get as you do the “We’re studying this—
we’re looking at this.” And it’s like, “Well, was this a big one, or was this a small one?” 
MS. ZOBEL. I think market participants, as Vice Chair Williams said, got caught off-
guard yesterday. So I would presume that, in some sense, they’re going to learn a little bit about 
how to approach these dates. Nonetheless, I think we will be assessing this as we go forward, 
seeing what the underlying causes were, and bringing an assessment back to you about where 
this fits intowhat we might expect going forward. I think the tax payment dates are frequent—
and quarter-ends and the types of circumstances under which we see these pressures. So whereas 
yesterday’s move was probably greater than one might expect, because people were a little bit 
caught off-guard and maybe a little bit— 
MR. EVANS. Rusty. 
MS. ZOBEL. —trading at higher rates, I think we probably would expect some pressure 
on those dates, and it’s just the degree. This degree, I’m not sure. 
MR. EVANS. I think the way John and the Chair described it, about how we’re going to 
be studying this and probing, is exactly right. It’s just the way that the questions might come 
about, that’s all. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. But, to be clear, the overall message is that this is not going to be a 
regular part of our world. This is something that happens as we’re feeling for the level of 

reserves. So if it’s happening frequently, that means that we don’t have the level of reserves 
right—ultimately, it will mean that. But we have to analyze the situation and not overreact 
today. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. On that point about the communication around this, I think this is the 
right approach—the studying and the learning. I think, in the context of some of the concerns 
about where the economy is, what the risks are to the economy, and the actions we’re taking, to 
me, that just puts a different context around—I wouldn’t want to be overly confident and say, 
“Yes, we’ve got this all figured out.” On the other hand, I think the message will be harder. If 
we were in normal times—if this had been last year—we probably could have said, “Yes, we’ve 
got a lot of learning we can bump around.” And you understand this better than I do, but I think, 
in the context of watching how the media are circling today on the question, “What does it 
mean?” and saying, “They haven’t done this since the crisis”— 
CHAIR POWELL. We’re sort of reacting in real time here, but what I wrote down this 
morning to say about that is, this is an important matter about market functioning. But this is 
really us using our tools to foster federal funds trading within the range that the Committee has 
set, and it doesn’t have implications for the broader economy. This is not something that will 
affect our performance in pursuing the dual mandate. So I’ll try not to downplay the market 
participants’ concern, but say that, for the broader audience, this is not really about the stance of 
monetary policy—the journalists are trying to make that connection. Really, there is no 
connection. We’re trying to find the right way to say that. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. I guess I agree with what’s been said, but I think we have to think about, 
what if we have to keep going into the market every day, right? Because we want to get to the 
quarter-end to do it. So it may be more difficult to kind of have the waiting game. I think we 

have to think a little further out about how to frame this, just because we don’t know whether 
we’re going to be going in every day until the end of the month. And I guess I have some 
concern that we’ll lose the narrative and someone else will take over the narrative for us, like this 
morning: They were talking about how we can’t keep the funds rate in the target, and I worry a 
little bit about that. 
CHAIR POWELL. Well, we will keep at it. We can’t promise we’ll do it every day, but 
we will use our tools if we have to in order to keep the funds rate in the target. I mean, restarting 
the balance sheet is not something that will solve this problem right away. It doesn’t move that 
quickly. The level of purchases is just not big enough—it would take some time. I think the 
message today is going to be one that preserves a lot of flexibility, doesn’t overpromise, calmly 
states that we’re looking carefully at this, and tries to give that sense. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Can I come back to the IOER? 
CHAIR POWELL. Please—yes. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. There are multiple issues that we’re trying to resolve here. I 
completely agree with President Mester. We need to be multitasking as we assess and evaluate 
those decision-tree kinds of elements that we need to be thinking through on these issues. 
You know, abstracting for the moment, taking a deep, cleansing breath, if I can, over the 
past few days, and thinking about the underlying dynamic, we’ve seen, as the amount of reserves 
has come down, the funds rate trades a little bit higher relative to the IOER rate. That’s been 
consistent with our analysis and our models, as I think I said yesterday. I do think that, given 
that that dynamic is going to be likely to evolve through the rest of the year, based on our own 
forecast, giving that little bit of extra room and having the IOER rate a little lower in the range 
will give us—it’s a little bit of a preemptive action. I don’t think we necessarily need to do it 

immediately, based on where the funds rate was trading last week, but it does provide us with 
some more cushion. We’re going to, I think, need it anyway because I think the funds rate will 
be trending up relative to the IOER rate later in this year, depending on other factors. So I feel, 
from a risk-management point of view—and also saying we’re on the job—that having the 
interest on reserves rates lower in the range is helpful. 
I also think that there are advantages to lowering the overnight reverse repo rate kind of 
in parallel. The concern we have is—and we talked about this, I think, in May when we did the 
previous technical adjustment, right?—as the IOER and ON RRP rates get closer and closer, that 
could potentially lead market participants to move away from holding reserves into holding 
balances in the ON RRP facility, which is kind of a big shift over there. That’s a risk that we’ve 
discussed, which I think would have negative implications for much trading that goes on in 
Eurodollars and federal funds. So I think there is some advantage in lowering the overnight 
reverse repo rate. 
I also think it’s a little bit easier story to tell if we just say we’re doing a technical 
adjustment, moving these two administered rates lower in order to foster conditions that keep the 
funds rate in the target range. It isn’t a strategy designed or a move designed to deal with the 
spikes as much but just to get the underlying conditions right. So I think there are some benefits 
to that. 
I also think, as I think Lorie said, these are complementary tools that address different 
aspects of the firming that we’re seeing in the funds rate. Again, I would just say, these are 
interventions to raise the probability that we keep the funds rate well within the range over the 
next few months. I do think these bigger issues that many have already brought up—about the 
right level of reserves and the growth in reserves over time—are the ones that we’re really going 

to tackle this longer-run issue. But to get to the long run, we need to get through the short run. 
So having things positioned as well as possible, I think, will manage some of those risks then. 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Thank you very much. If there are no further comments or 
questions, why don’t we move, then, now to our policy go-round, beginning with Governor 
Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. I support alternative B as written and the 
policy decision to lower the federal funds rate target range by 25 basis points as well as the 
decision to lower the IOER rate and the reverse repurchase rate. 
I note that in this statement, we continue to acknowledge that “measures of inflation 
compensation remain low” and continue in the statement to state that “survey-based measures” 
are little changed.” This is technically correct, but it does obscure the fact that both of these 
indicators are at historically low levels. If these measures of expected inflation were consistent 
with our target before the crisis, then they’re not consistent with our target now. 
I also support in the statement the reference to the empirical fact that exports have 
weakened on a year-over-year basis. They are contracting, and, in fact, as the chart in the pack 
showed yesterday, it’s actually unusual outside recessions to have contraction in demand 
originating from abroad. 
We also recently received data that the ISM index, a venerable indicator of the economy 
going back 50-plus years, has now fallen below 50—obviously not indicative of anything in 
itself, but noted here at least. Of course, the U.S. consumer remains the engine of growth in the 
economy, but the slowdown in global growth and trade, as well as pervasive global 
disinflationary pressures, are beginning to affect the trajectory of U.S. activity. And, as I noted 
yesterday, one of the reasons why the staff projection is for core PCE inflation to remain below 2 

percent, even though they see cyclical upward pressure, is global disinflationary pressure on 
import prices. 
In regard to the way forward for monetary policy, I’d like to make two points. Building 
on my outlook remarks yesterday, I note that the median SEP number for u* remains at 4.2 
percent, and five participants, including me, project a long-run u* of 4 percent or lower. If, 
indeed, u* is 4 percent or lower—and, of course, I think this is consistent with the wage data and 
recent research by Crump, Giannoni, and others—then the output gap is smaller than we think, 
which means that upward pressure on the output gap will be less than we think, which in turn 
means that, if anything, the staff estimate that core PCE inflation remains at 1.8 percent may be 
too optimistic. To me, this is a persuasive argument, along with market signals from TIPS and 
the yield curve slope, that our current policy is too tight. 
Second, I would like to discuss briefly the way that I think about monetary policy 
alternatives in response to a fall in economic activity that could be attributed in part to trade 
policy. Here I believe it is important to distinguish between trade policy actions that have been 
taken, as opposed to trade policy uncertainty about possible future actions. Trade policy actions, 
such as tariffs that are in place for a long time, potentially affect both aggregate demand and 
aggregate supply via disruptions to global supply chains. And recent empirical research from the 
IMF does support this logic. It finds, in a large panel of countries over recent decades, that with 
a lag of several years, a sustained rise in tariffs does lower real GDP and, ultimately, 
productivity, but this has to be sustained over a number of years. 
To the extent that trade policy actions reduce long-run U.S. aggregate supply, the fall in 
potential output is not something that monetary policy should try to offset. If inflation 
expectations are well anchored, I think a central bank can and should be willing to “look 

through” price-level increases arising from new tariffs but not try to maintain GDP at a level 
inconsistent with potentially lower potential output. Let me be clear: I don’t think that’s the 
case now. But, theoretically, that is the case. 
Trade policy uncertainty, on the other hand, or trade policy actions that do not reduce 
potential output reduce aggregate demand via lower investment and reduced purchasing power. 
These are shocks that monetary policy can and, I believe, should offset, just as it would endeavor 
to counter a fall in aggregate demand arising from any other source. Although we have not seen 
this yet, were we to see a material rise in unemployment that we might attribute in part to trade 
policy uncertainty, our dual-mandate obligation of maximum employment would not vanish 
simply because unemployment rises in response in part to uncertainty about trade policy. Thus 
far, neither we, as a Committee, nor the staff is marking down our view of potential growth or 
maximum employment. Nor, for that matter, are we projecting that current or anticipated trade 
policy will push inflation above our target or compromise our price-stability mandate. 
Finally, in practice, if not in textbooks, fluctuations in aggregate demand are caused by 
multiple and shifting sources that are difficult to disentangle statistically even after the fact, let 
alone in real time. Governor Brainard and I recently attended an OECD meeting, and the 
discussion among global central bankers and finance officials was quite telling. There was, to be 
sure, discussion of the adverse effect of trade policy uncertainty on the outlook. But other 
factors were also mentioned prominently as contributing to the global slowdown, including 
Brexit uncertainty, weakness in emerging market economies, and a slowdown in China due to a 
rebalancing of the economy and the lagged effects of past restrictions on private-sector credit 
growth. 

The state of our knowledge and time-series econometrics is simply incapable of telling us 
with any precision how much of any fall in demand is due to any particular source. And I think 
we need to bear that in mind. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Chair Powell. I support alternative C at this meeting. 
If the statement made it clear that we would need to see more evidence in the data of an 
economic downturn before easing further, I might have been supportive of alt-B at this meeting. 
However, with language that is nearly identical to July’s, which led to the near-certain 
expectation of an additional reduction in interest rates at this meeting, I fear that the language in 
this statement will lead markets to similarly price in another cut in October or December with 
near certainty. 
With today’s reduction in the funds rate, we are now noticeably below where we judge 
the federal funds rate to be in the long run. Monetary policy and fiscal policy are already 
accommodative. I do not see credit being restricted—quite the opposite. Reducing rates at the 
peak of the cycle has more undesirable financial stability features because it encourages more 
risk-taking. In a recession, we need to push back against credit contraction, but that is not a 
problem now. 
With this sequence of easings, I also have communication concerns. Labor markets 
remain tight. The soft inflation numbers seem to have been temporary. It is not clear where the 
easing cycle would end. It is unlikely that tariffs go away anytime soon, and many of the 
geopolitical risks seem far from a resolution. Do we keep easing as long as risks are elevated? 
Another way of putting this is, if these actions are about buying insurance, how much insurance 
do we need, and at what point do the premiums become too expensive? It seems as if we’re 

paying a lot for risks that appear to have only modest effects to date on the economy and the 
economic outlook. So I hope that we do not continue easing for as long as these risks remain 
elevated. I would much prefer to express a bias toward easing and then to react strongly if it 
becomes clear that these risks will materialize. 
We have a trade policy that is distorting trading relationships and supply chain 
management. The solution to that problem is not to distort monetary policy unless the trade 
distortions significantly affect our primary focuses of inflation, unemployment, and real GDP. 
Just as tariffs have side effects, so does very accommodative monetary policy. I do not 
think, at this stage of the business cycle, we should be encouraging more risk-taking by further 
reducing rates. Lowering the price of credit will almost surely expand the quantity of credit and 
will likely reduce the quality of credit, particularly while economic conditions remain benign. 
The risks that we all see warrant a bias toward easing, not a preemptive sequence of rate 
cuts that push real short-term interest rates into negative territory. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn’t sleep well last night, and I had a 
dream. And in the dream, I confronted the “WWBYD,” which is What Would Brigham Young 
Do? [Laughter] The prophet offered three alternatives, but they were labeled in a way that I 
couldn’t understand. [Laughter] I didn’t know what the different letters were, so I couldn’t quite 
make it out. But I think the prophet was telling me to support alternative A. So, therefore, I am 
going to support alternative A for today. 
Alternative A, as you know, does contain a 50 basis point reduction in the policy rate. In 
my opinion, this would better center the policy rate on what I think is the desired value, given 
what I see as substantial intermeeting developments. I view the intermeeting bond market 

volatility as more seriously pricing in the possible consequences of what is now likely to be a 
protracted global trade war, with little or no leadership pushing in the direction of trade 
liberalization. The Chinese side will likely want to wait for the 2020 U.S. election outcome 
before agreeing to any trade arrangements. Unfortunately for them and maybe for all of us, I do 
not think the election will change anything with respect to trade issues, because, as I said 
yesterday, I think it’s really bipartisan agreement on ending the consensus on the United States 
being the leader and pushing for free trade globally. 
Most other nations are more mercantilist in nature, so, accordingly, I think the right way 
to interpret the situation is that trade uncertainty will likely be a feature of the macroeconomic 
landscape over the medium term—that is, several years into the future and possibly beyond that. 
This is likely to continue to disrupt global business investment and lead to slower growth than 
would otherwise occur. The attendant global slowdown may feed back to the United States in 
important ways. 
Bond market repricing has been swift during the intermeeting period and has left this 
Committee out of position with respect to the policy rate. The policy rate today is higher than 
nearly all sovereign yields in the G-7. 
We are reducing the policy rate today if the Committee adopts alternative B, but, in my 
opinion, not far enough and in conjunction with a Summary of Economic Projections that 
suggests only weak appetite for further policy rate reductions. This might leave the yield curve 
inverted over a longer period. 
I do view the Committee as taking out insurance, both at this meeting and at the previous 
meeting, against meaningful downside risks. I think an important consideration is that we can 
take rate cuts back later should we view these risks as having subsided. The Committee did 

behave in this manner during 1995 and ’96 and again in 1998. I think the 1998 example is 
particularly apt in this circumstance. You had disturbances overseas that we wanted to guard 
against, but, eventually, we took those rate cuts back. 
In both the ’95 and the ’98 cases, the Committee successfully lowered rates, mitigated 
risk, and subsequently increased rates. My SEP path does pencil in a baseline that mimics this 
pattern, with two rate increases over the forecast horizon as current downside risks fade. 
To those who argue we are meeting our dual mandate today, I generally agree, but I also 
think we are at substantial risk of not meeting our mandate over the forecast horizon should a 
recession develop. In that case, our current low unemployment rate will rise sharply, and, in 
addition, inflation will fall further below target. At that point, should we allow it to develop, we 
will not be meeting our mandate, and it would likely be a long time before we could meet it, and 
our tools will be limited. 
Recession probabilities, according to many models, are high. I think we should take the 
signal from these at face value. I don’t see any reason to play them down in the current 
environment. 
With inflation by our preferred measure running below target, there’s little to gain from a 
tighter-than-necessary stance, given current conditions. I also take some signal from President 
Kashkari’s comments concerning probabilities of inflation outcomes based on options pricing 
that suggest that the probability that inflation will be less than 1 percent is much greater than the 
probability that inflation will be greater than 3 percent in coming years. This suggests that the 
big risk over the forecast horizon for this Committee is that we unwittingly allow the United 
States to fall into an outcome that looks like the situation in Japan and Europe today. We should 
be especially aggressive now to avoid that outcome in the years ahead. 

Core PCE inflation, our preferred measure, is below target, but I don’t think it is enough 
to simply argue that it will return to target or to 1.8 percent, as the Tealbook has it, in the next 
couple of years. The framework discussion yesterday highlighted the fact that we would prefer 
to run inflation above target, perhaps 2 to 2½ percent, when the economy is not in recession in 
order to meet our inflation target, on average, over a long time frame—that is, over the entire 
cycle. 
So, in summary, I support alternative A for today. As general advice to the Committee, I 
suggest that we move the policy rate where we want to go and go there, and suggest that we’ll 
watch the incoming information from there. With alternative B, I think markets will, as in June, 
price in another rate cut with high probability. If that’s what’s going to happen, then I think 
we’re better off simply making the 50-basis-point cut today and maintaining flexibility to take it 
back in the future if downside risks do not develop or fade away. 
On the question of the federal funds rate and where it’s trading, my preference would be 
that the Chair would state during the press conference that we are at least studying the possibility 
of a repo facility. In my mind, if we had a repo facility, we would meet an international standard 
for how these kinds of things are done. I think we would eliminate the liquidity scrambles like 
the ones we’ve seen in recent days. I don’t think we’d have to say anything more than that we’re 
looking at it, but I think this would calm the current situation. 
If we hint that we are thinking about restarting balance sheet growth, I think that will be 
taken as a cue that we’re restarting quantitative easing. I’m not sure the Committee is ready to 
send that signal. I’m also not sure that merely allowing the balance sheet to grow would actually 
mitigate these types of situations all that well. As we just heard, the traders more or less were 
caught off-guard on a particular day because of a confluence of events. That could still happen 

even if the balance sheet was somewhat larger than it is today. So I think the way to control this 
and really take it off the table—President Kaplan was saying, put something in place that will 
just take this issue off the table—that would be the repo facility, in my view. Thank you, Mr. 
Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative C at this meeting. Most 
economic forecasts show an economy growing at or above its trend rate because of solid 
consumption growth, which continues to be supported by strong personal income growth, a 
dynamic labor market, and accommodative financial conditions. Now, although I have concerns 
over the persistent undershooting of our inflation target, we do seem to be making slow—again, 
slow—headway, and I share the staff’s view that inflation is moving toward target. 
I am cognizant of the increase in downside risks posed by a weakening global economy 
and by uncertainty over trade policy. But with the exception of investment, important effects 
have yet to materialize on the U.S. economy or on forecasts of its likely trajectory. And, in view 
of the increased uncertainty, investment is unlikely to rebound with another 25 basis point cut. 
That is, I simply do not believe the rate cut or cuts we’re contemplating today and in the near 
future will have any meaningful effect on business investment. So, for example, in the survey of 
the National Federation of Independent Business, a group of small companies that are sensitive 
to rates, they stated that only 3 percent of their member firms said that their need for capital was 
inadequate—3 percent. Larger firms also expressed little to no concern with respect to access to 
capital. 
So, in this situation, lower rates will not significantly increase business investment. 
Coupling this fact with the supply chain reorganization information I mentioned yesterday in my 

economic outlook, wherein very few firms are considering moving production back to the United 
States, I simply do not see how cutting short-term rates will demonstrably increase business 
investment in this country. Rather, my contacts clearly indicate that they want to see where the 
dust settles on trade policy and other policies before ramping up capital expenditures. As well, 
the price effects of the trade war have had a larger effect on the price of investment goods. If 
firms believe that these effects are temporary, they will delay investment decisions and wait for 
more favorable prices in the future. 
There are also compelling economic reasons for keeping our policy powder dry, because 
there could be costs of preemptively taking out insurance against the possibility of a future bad 
shock. If the shock arrives in the near future, the effectiveness of further cuts in boosting 
demand may be impaired. 
The logic is straightforward and works off the idea that a drop in rates—say, deposit and 
borrowing rates—encourages households that were expecting to make a lumpy purchase in the 
near future, such as a car or a house, to make that purchase now. But once these households 
have done so, the stock of households who can be induced to bring their purchases forward in 
time is depleted, and it takes time for that stock to build up again. Thus, the next rate cut will be 
less effective in boosting aggregate demand if it follows the first cut too closely in time. On top 
of that, if the next rate cut occurs when incomes are falling, the stock of potential adjusters could 
be further depleted, and the rate cuts will be even less effective. 
Now, I admit that there is a possibility that the current rate cuts may lower the probability 
of negative demand shocks and, hence, help avoid the scenario I just outlined. However, given 
the strength in current consumption, there is little reason, in my mind, to think that we are about 
to witness a downturn in demand. And the insurance policy is not likely to have a material effect 

on investment in the current climate of uncertainty. Therefore, the insurance policy that we’re 
purchasing may, in the end, not provide any insurance at all but merely damp the effects of 
policy reactions to future shocks, while reducing the room for future policy adjustments. 
If we were to see meaningful weakening in the labor market or on the part of the 
consumer, I would favor a very aggressive easing. But the policy contemplated in alternative B 
is not likely to have any appreciable effect, and it is also difficult to communicate as a systematic 
response consistent with past actions. 
I worry that alternative B is putting us on a glide path of continuing increases in 
accommodation, with little communication of what we would need to witness before rates are 
deemed low enough. I am uneasy with the lack of a clear narrative. Without one in place, others 
will and are supplying it. That could risk an eventual disconnect between the Committee and 
markets. And I am hearing an increasing concern among my contacts and directors regarding the 
FOMC’s underlying strategy, with many expressing, simply, confusion and frustration. Thus, a 
clear communication of the Committee’s path of our policy stance at this time is absolutely 
critical. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support no change in the federal funds rate at 
this meeting. This is based on my assessment of incoming economic information, my outlook, 
and the risks to the outlook. 
The economy continues to perform well along a number of dimensions. Although trade 
policy, tariffs, and uncertainty have weakened business investment and manufacturing activity, 
this weakness has been offset by strong consumer spending, and, overall, the economy continues 
to expand at its strong pace. Labor market conditions remain strong, and wages continue to grow 

and are supportive of continued solid consumer spending. Recent inflation readings are largely 
consistent with inflation gradually moving back to 2 percent over time. 
No doubt there are salient risks to the outlook. If these risks manifest themselves and we 
find that the weakness in business investment is spilling over into hiring and into consumer 
spending or if we see evidence of a deterioration in inflation expectations, I would support our 
acting—and acting decisively. But, until we see that evidence, I prefer not to add to the risks by 
cutting rates again in an economy that is still performing well. 
A main source of the weakness in the business sector is uncertainty about trade policy, 
not restrained access to credit. Corporate debt levels are already at high levels, and firms are not 
reporting that access to credit is a problem. 
The main short-run effect of a rate cut would be to raise asset prices, posing a potential 
risk. The effect on the real economy would come from a signal that a rate cut would provide 
about the future path of our policy rate. In light of the already low level of our funds rate, I 
would prefer to preserve that signal until it’s needed and then act decisively. 
I don’t feel that our communications over the intermeeting period have given us the 
optionality that we craved coming into this meeting. The markets are placing 100 percent odds 
on our cutting the funds rate today and very high odds on another rate cut by the end of the year. 
There’s little change in our statement language from the July meeting, when we last cut, and the 
Committee plans to cut again at this meeting. It’s hard to see how this statement creates any 
optionality for us going into the October meeting. The lack of a change in language reinforces 
the expectations for further cuts consistent with market expectations. Even under the revised 
SEP median path, the policy rate path expected by market participants is still easier than what the 
Committee currently sees as appropriate. 

So it’s difficult to see how this ends well. If we take no steps to influence market 
expectations via our communications, at some point, our actions will have to disappoint the 
markets. Or if, instead, we put very high value on not disappointing the markets because of the 
potential disruption that would cause, we will be compelled to ratify market expectations and 
take actions that we don’t view as necessarily appropriate, given our outlook. 
We can avoid this situation by using our communications to help bring market 
expectations into alignment. Perhaps the Chair can use his press conference to clarify things and 
convey that the Committee may be biased toward easing, given the risks, but our future decisions 
are going to be very dependent on how the economy evolves from here and whether we see the 
weakness in the business sector spreading to labor markets and the consumer sector. This is 
going to be a challenge, and, rather than placing this communications burden solely on the Chair, 
I would have preferred that the statement do some of the work—perhaps by articulating the risks 
to our forecast and bringing back a version of the “balance of risks” language. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. I support 
lowering the IOER rate as suggested and also the overnight RRP rate. As best we can, I think we 
should get the focus on the reduction in the target rate this round. 
The downside risks to growth arising from international developments appear to have 
intensified and are spilling over more noticeably into business confidence and spending plans. 
With regard to inflation, the recent readings on consumer prices have been good news, 
but the further deterioration in inflation breakevens just heighten my already strong concern 

about the headwinds from low inflation expectations. We still have a ways to go to achieve our 
symmetric 2 percent objective, so I am on board for a rate cut today. 
Beyond the current decision, I recalibrated my SEP funds rate assumptions this round. 
After a move today, my policy rate path is flat through late 2021 at the range of 1¾ to 2 percent. 
This is the same assumption I had in June, but I’ve slowed the subsequent funds rate increases by 
having only one 25 basis point hike in each of 2021 and 2022. This puts the funds rate in the 
range of 2¼ to 2½ percent at the end of 2022. That’s 50 basis points below what I would have 
written down if we’d been forecasting out that far in June. 
The change reflects some reconsideration of r* on my part. We haven’t moved our view 
of long-run nominal r*, which is still 2¾ percent, but important headwinds, especially 
uncertainty over the rules of the game regarding international trade and weak growth abroad, are 
pushing short-run r* below its long-run level. We recognized these headwinds in June, but we 
now think they are somewhat stronger and will be longer lived than we assumed back then. This 
view is supported by our DSGE model in Chicago, which estimates current short-run nominal r* 
is quite low and will still be under 2½ percent at the end of the projection period. Some 
decompositions of the yield curve also suggest that the real short-term rates will be low for quite 
a while. 
In light of this r* reassessment, we had to move our baseline funds rate path to maintain a 
modestly accommodative policy stance and generate overshooting of our inflation target within 
the forecast window. This overshooting has been a design feature of our projection for some 
time, which, as I’m sure you all know by now, is something I feel we must do in firmly 
establishing the credibility of our symmetric 2 percent inflation objective. 

I also see this as a risk-management move. Our uncertainty about short-run r* is very 
large, but a lower-for-longer rate path is consistent with managing against the asymmetric risks 
between policy being overly restrictive rather than overly accommodative. Overly 
accommodative policy would lead to inflation picking up more quickly than we expect, but in 
that case, we would then simply achieve our inflation objective sooner, and the Committee could 
then use its usual policy tools to manage the economy. Overly restrictive policy could produce 
risks to the expansion. It would also further cement below-target inflation trends, making it even 
harder to achieve our symmetric 2 percent objective, and bring the effective lower bound closer 
into play. 
Tealbook B spelled out this risk-management argument quite well in making the case for 
alt-B this round, and it seems to me that this rationale will be an important factor in our policy 
thinking for some time. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. At my core, I remain convinced that the economy 
is healthy. Growth is good, labor markets are tight, and inflation is firming toward our target. In 
a bubble, I would keep rates steady. However, the environment feels like it’s interfering with my 
calm life within the bubble. The risks are clearly elevated versus our July meeting. The markets 
are sending a strong message, one we’ve not pushed back on. In that context, it’s clear to me 
that holding rates steady would be a significant negative event, and, with the economy possibly 
at a razor’s edge, that event could put us in the center in a way I feel would be unwise. 
When reasonable people disagree, as we are doing today, I find it helpful to step back and 
try to calibrate myself. I clearly share the view of many that the risks are tilted to the downside 
and that the cost of a couple of cuts that I might not have chosen is probably low. Where I think 

I may differ from some, on reflection, is the weight, as President Harker also said, that I place on 
the risk of moving too low too quickly. I fear that our logic on inflation or on risk management 
will inevitably lead markets to pressure us to go ever lower, as they have over the past six weeks 
and as President Bullard foreshadowed. I see nothing in the statement that works to limit this 
downward progression, and I believe taking rates back up will be more difficult than our 
forecasts suggest, meaning we spend ammunition we may want later. 
In the late ’90s, just for context, we did take rates up, but when we did that, real GDP 
growth was more than 4 percent. In the ’90s, we used to communicate two messages: rates and 
tilt. While not my preference, like President Rosengren, I could get comfortable on this rate 
decision if we had a message that flattened the outlook to one that’s more balanced. One idea is 
to let the statement do that work—say, by changing “this action” to “this adjustment” or another 
phrase that you might prefer more—or to do so in the press conference, and the median SEP may 
offer a reference point that helps that. 
My board meeting was interesting. I made the case to them that I just made to you and 
asked for their support for a 25 basis point reduction paired with a flatter trajectory. Kartik is 
here, and he will attest that I was extremely compelling. [Laughter] After reassuring themselves 
that my ego could accept rejection, they voted unanimously to hold. 
This raises for me the question of how we best communicate. They do not believe 
monetary policy tools are effective stimulus, given that business hesitation is being driven by 
uncertainty and labor market tightness. They, too, fear a race to the bottom and would have us 
conserve our ammunition. They believe further reduction sends a negative confidence signal. 
They would like us to take a stand against what they perceive as bullying by the markets. 

One final comment—on the phrase “sustain the expansion.” I know we’ve grown 
accustomed to it, but it does worry me, given that the expansion will surely end at some point, 
and it’s most likely to be ended by a factor other than monetary policy. It sends a message that 
we own that outcome, when it’s easy to imagine that we shouldn’t. I accept that this is a 
comment about future statements. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as written. From a 
risk-management point of view, I am concerned that decelerating rates of global growth, weak 
manufacturing, and weak business investment in the United States will ultimately translate into 
slower jobs growth, which will, in turn, ultimately affect the consumer. I’m concerned that, if 
we wait to see that consumer weakness in order to act, I believe we will have waited too long. I 
believe the yield curve is a reality check in this regard, and it tells me that the policy setting is 
too tight. 
I agree with President Barkin’s comment that, over time, I hope we can wean off that 
sentence about sustaining the expansion. I would prefer that the FOMC focuses on full 
employment and price stability over a sustained period. There are limits. We haven’t reached 
them yet, but there are limits to what I would be willing to support in order to sustain the 
expansion, for fear that going too far, maybe as other central banks in the world have done, will 
ultimately make it harder to meet our dual mandate over a sustained period. So I hope we will 
consider weaning off that language not at this meeting but in the future. Thank you, 
Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 

MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Chair Powell. I support alternative B as currently written. 
My baseline expectation continues to be that the domestic economy will perform well in 2019. 
We continue to achieve our goals of maximum employment and price stability. But since our 
July meeting, the outlook for economic performance abroad has declined again, and trade 
uncertainty remains high. Compounding this are the recent disruption in global oil production 
and the effect that it may have here in the United States. 
In light of these facts, I believe a modest downward adjustment to our policy rate is 
appropriate at this meeting to help lower these risks and mitigate their possible effect on the U.S. 
economy. Although the economic headwinds from abroad have had a modest effect at this point, 
the global growth outlook and ongoing trade policy uncertainty are serious risk factors weighing 
on the outlook for U.S. economic performance. With inflation pressures muted and a strong 
labor market, we have room to provide some additional accommodation to reassure firms and 
households that the expansion in U.S. economic activity is poised to continue. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative C as the appropriate policy 
action at this time. 
There are several dimensions along which I’m currently assessing the stance of policy: 
the dual mandate, including both the current performance of the economy and inflation as well as 
risks to the outlook; the current signal being given by financial markets embodied in a flattening 
and/or intermittently inverted yield curve; and a strategic perspective on policymaking over the 
coming months. Along each of these dimensions, I believe the best action is to hold.—First, let 
me start with the macroeconomy. As I mentioned yesterday in the go-round, my assessment is 

that the economy is currently achieving the dual mandate with continued solid employment 
performance and gains in household income. 
That said, there are certainly risks related to the potential for a global slowdown, led by 
Europe, China, and a full-blown trade war. Any of these could potentially drag the U.S. 
economy into recession. And I agree with others that we need to protect against this possibility. 
However, our policy action in July was widely viewed as providing just such insurance. While 
the new cycle of risks has continued and arguably strengthened with the recent disruptions to 
Saudi oil production, the U.S. macrodata have continued to come in, in line with my 2019 
forecast for 2 percent growth, and I see no indications that more insurance is necessary at this 
time. 
In fact, I am concerned that a further insurance-motivated cut could signal that we 
perceive the economy to be on the brink. Some of my directors and contacts are suggesting that 
some of their pullback in manufacturing capital expenditures is being driven more by fear that 
we know something that they don’t than any actual softening of demand or forecasts of 
weakening demand for their products. Continuing to ease in the absence of weakening data may 
facilitate a self-fulfilling prophecy. 
Regarding the other half of the dual mandate, another motivation for easing that has been 
discussed at these meetings is the view that inflation is currently not at target and that decisive 
easing is needed to drive it to target and protect against a lowering of inflation expectations. As I 
noted yesterday, the most recent data on inflation suggest that by some measures, we are close to 
target, if not beyond it. Therefore, on this basis, a hold also seems appropriate at this time. 
With respect to financial markets, my staff and I—like, I imagine, many of your staffs 
and you—spent a lot of time during the intermeeting period discussing the flattening and 

inversion of the yield curve. The first observation that I’ll make is about the volatility of the 
yield curve. It’s a whole lot steeper now than it was just a few days ago, and I expect this 
volatility to continue. I also think that we are getting somewhat mixed messages from financial 
markets. Many take the inverted yield curve to be a sign that the market expects a recession 
soon. However, my staff’s analysis of the federal funds and Eurodollar derivative markets 
suggests that most market participants expect policy rates to stay at or above 1 percent for the 
foreseeable future, which is arguably inconsistent with expecting a recession, as there is broad 
consensus that we will go to the effective lower bound if a recession actually occurs. 
Finally, as others have mentioned, there are other global dynamics affecting the shape of 
the yield curve that aren’t tied to domestic risks at all. The volatility, mixed signals, and other 
factors all prompt me to ask, if we were to move, do we think it would materially affect the 
shape of the curve and have a real-side effect? Now, taking that question one step further, I have 
been thinking about issues related to global finance and wondering whether there’s a limit on 
how far our policy can diverge from that of other central banks. Put bluntly, are we now more a 
following economy and a following policy body rather than a leading one? That’s a significant 
departure from how we’ve approached our policy space and something I’d want to think about 
and discuss more before taking strong action on that basis. So, all in all, I’m watching financial 
markets closely, but I again believe the best course of action right now is to hold and watch how 
events and market assessments evolve. 
Now, as an aside, I agree with President Mester. At some point, we will have to have a 
reckoning with the expectations of financial markets. At some point, we are going to have to tell 
them something that they don’t want to hear and that they don’t like, and when we do, there will 
be some disruption and volatility in those markets, and we’re just going to have to be 

comfortable letting that play itself out. I have concerns that the longer we wait, the more 
disruptive it will ultimately be. 
Finally, with respect to thinking about the evolution of policy over the next 6 to 
12 months, I worry a lot about our setting out on a trajectory where we march to zero and 
ultimately wind up there, perhaps even in the absence of a recession. At this point, the rationale 
for the policy moves does not provide any clear guidance on what conditions need to prevail for 
us to stop cutting rates. If we create a trend in our policy actions, given the current economic 
environment, as others have said today, I don’t think it’s going to be easy to justify stopping the 
trend. I have no reason to think that the current environment—that is, the data and the risks to 
the economy—will be appreciably different at the next meeting or even 4 to 6 months from now. 
And on this point, I’m finally agreeing with my team. If that’s the case, if we are data 
dependent, and if our statement remains largely unchanged, then our actions should roughly stay 
the same over this period, which, with a cut at this meeting, would put us, I believe, on the road 
to zero. 
I don’t think this would place us in a very good policy stance, given the robust 
performance of the economy. And from my engagement with the business community and other 
leaders in the Sixth District, I think there’s broad consensus about this view. Therefore, with 
respect to each of these dimensions—the dual mandate, financial markets, and the longer policy 
rate path—I believe the best action right now is to hold on rates. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The outlook for my SEP submission is 
mostly unchanged from June. The incoming data have been in line with a forecast that calls for 
growth to decelerate toward trend over the medium term. With that modal outlook, however, a 

number of downside risks and uncertainties have accumulated, posing difficult policy choices for 
this Committee. 
I view maintaining the current range for the funds rate, as described in alternative C, as 
appropriate in the current environment and not unlike the approach taken by the Committee as it 
responded to the manufacturing and commodity slump in 2014 and 2015. Rather than adding 
stimulus, the Committee lowered its projected path of interest rates. Using the median SEP as a 
reference point, I note that the projection for the appropriate setting of policy at the end of 2016 
was lowered nearly 1 full percentage point. That adjustment provided appropriate support for 
the broader economy at a time when some sectors were experiencing weakness, and the economy 
continued to expand. 
Similarly, from last September to June 2019, the median SEP projection for the funds rate 
at the end of 2019 declined 1 full percentage point. This adjustment occurred as signs emerged 
from business contacts—and were later confirmed by data—that the economy would approach 
trend growth more rapidly than previously estimated. I see this shallower path as offering 
support without using the Committee’s limited policy space to respond to issues that monetary 
policy is arguably unable to resolve. 
Given that inflation remains somewhat below our 2 percent target, some may view the 
cost of a further reduction in rates today as benign, and that may turn out to be the case. 
However, I’m also mindful of the fact that easier policy is designed to encourage risk-taking and 
leverage, and, at this stage of the business cycle, our ability to offset any unintended effects 
related to financial stability seems limited. Although the most recent QS report discussed at our 
July meeting was generally sanguine about overall vulnerabilities, its assessment did point to 
elevated risk in key sectors, including commercial real estate and leveraged lending. 

Corporate debt also continues to rise to high levels, with the fastest growth among the 
riskiest firms. At the same time, systemically important financial institutions are lowering loss-
absorbing capital levels. Historically, such a combination has proved costly to employment and 
growth, especially at this stage of the expansion. 
As I noted yesterday, I remain attentive to the incoming data for signs that downside risks 
to the outlook materialize in a way that meaningfully affects broad economic conditions. Under 
those circumstances, I would be prepared to adjust monetary policy accordingly. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. Although 
the domestic data alone remain relatively strong, the risks to the outlook are elevated. And while 
I think it’s a close call, I am comfortable with a further “insurance” cut. Our economic 
momentum is being impeded by increased trade tensions and fragile foreign growth, so cutting 
rates at this meeting is an appropriate policy. 
While I’m comfortable with today’s rate cut, at this point, I see value in maintaining 
optionality going forward, as a number of the members of the Committee have said. My baseline 
is that rates remain on hold through the rest of the year. Obviously, we’d reassess that if the data 
were to deteriorate or risks were to increase meaningfully further. But if, as I would expect, the 
data are essentially the same going forward, we need to make sure that our communications 
would allow us not to cut further. 
Further out, although I have cut my estimate of the long-run neutral rate down a notch, as 
I mentioned yesterday, the reduced business investment that, like President Harker, I attribute 
principally to trade policy will nonetheless have consequences. I still believe that we do have, 

over the long term, a strong and growing economy, and soon enough, rates will have to increase 
to maintain sustainable growth. 
Regarding two other points that have come up in the discussion, like President Bullard, I 
would be cautious about communication. I think any indication that we’re sort of ready to start 
increasing the balance sheet even theoretically will be overinterpreted in the current 
circumstances, and I’m not sure that the Committee has done that. I think that the response to 
the events of the past couple of days does require, as Vice Chairman Williams said, more study 
and more thinking through—maybe not months and months of examining our navel, but more 
than we currently have—and that, ultimately, I think we’re going to be more comfortable with 
something like the repo facility, as President Bullard said, as the way to respond to what we’ve 
seen over the course of the past couple of days. 
Similarly, although it was not something I had given any thought to until this discussion, 
I was taken by the comments of President Barkin, supported by President Kaplan, that the phrase 
“sustain the expansion” at some point is going to turn around to bite us, because when the 
expansion ends, it will suggest that we must not have been doing that, and that if there was some 
way to free us of the phrase, that would be a good thing. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative A. I think we should 
be more aggressive than a 25 basis point cut. I see two reasons to increase accommodation. 
First and foremost, inflation remains low, and inflation expectations are too low and declining. 
Second, the U.S. economy is slowing in the context of weak global growth, and I think there’s a 
clear balance-of-risks case for cutting now rather than waiting until we’re actually sure we’re in 
a recession. 

Let me expand on these two arguments. Focusing on inflation first, I don’t think it’s hard 
to understand why expected inflation is low. We raised rates, in my humble opinion, too soon 
and too quickly, and in doing so, we signaled that we view 2 percent as a ceiling rather than a 
symmetric target. All of our discussions about the framework review and about a low-r* 
environment—I think there’s widespread consensus that the zero lower bound is a real constraint 
on our ability to respond to possible downturns, and in those environments, we should be 
responding aggressively to signs of economic weakness and move sooner rather than later. 
I want to remind the Committee of a proposal I advocated in the past two meetings about 
forward guidance. By the way, in Minneapolis, we call this the Feldman rule, because it was 
Ron Feldman who first recommended this to me. That was to cut the federal funds rate 50 basis 
points and then simultaneously announce that we will not raise the federal funds rate until core 
inflation reaches 2 percent on a sustained basis. Such an announcement would help convince 
people that we’re serious about our symmetric 2 percent target and also help ourselves from 
repeating previous hawkish mistakes. 
The Bank of Japan, the ECB, and the Fed have declared victory too soon in the past, and 
then they’ve undermined their ability to achieve the 2 percent target. Last week, the ECB 
announced a set of new policy measures to try to drag inflation back up toward their target. One 
component of their package was literally what I just proposed—which is, they announced that 
they’re going to either keep rates at the current level or lower them until they actually achieve 
their inflation target as they’ve defined it. So they literally just did what we suggest. Now, why 
have they done this? As I said, because in the past, they made the mistake of declaring victory 
too soon, raised rates, and undermined their ability to achieve their inflation target. 

It might be too late for the ECB. It might be too late for the Bank of Japan because 
they’ve allowed inflation expectations to slip. But I don’t think it’s too late for us. And that’s 
why I actually think forward guidance is a more useful tool and a potentially more effective tool 
if we do it when we’re closer to achieving our target than if we wait until we’re sure that we’re 
missing it. 
I’m just really struck by the debate and the discussion, which I thought was very useful, 
on the framework review. It seems like there’s broad consensus of the problem with the ELB 
and a lot of interest in these makeup strategies or redefining what “symmetry” means, et cetera, 
and yet we’re not walking the walk. This is not a time-inconsistency problem. We’re not 
walking the walk even while we’re talking the talk. So if you look at the SEP that we’re putting 
out this afternoon, in 2021, 12 of 17 of us have some rate increases between now and then, and 
only 3 of those 12 actually had core inflation above 2 percent at the time. If you go to 2022, 
15 of 17 of us have rate increases, and only 5 of those 15 actually had core inflation reaching 
2 percent. So our own bias toward raising ahead of inflation is maintained today even while 
we’re having all of these thoughtful deliberations about what to do in the ELB. 
It’s very easy for us to say what we’re going to do. When we’re actually walking the 
walk, we’re not willing to do it. So that’s why I think a commitment to not raising rates until we 
actually achieve our inflation target is useful for the ECB, and it would be useful for us. 
Regarding the recession arguments, as others have noted and as I’ve myself noted, weak 
investment and slowing job gains suggest that the U.S. economy is losing momentum. 
Estimating the exact recession probabilities is difficult, but I’m really taken by the Tealbook’s 
estimates. Whether it’s 45 percent, 50 percent, or 60 percent, those are all way too high for me, 
and I think we should be getting out aggressively. If we wait until we are sure the economy is 

really slowing, it’s too late. Maybe we can make the recession a little less soft, but I would 
rather avoid the recession. And, again, all of the analysis in the framework review says, in a 
low-r* environment, you are far better off to get out early and ahead of it. 
The last comment I’ll make is, we’ve had a lot of debates about nonlinearities in the 
inflation process over the past few years. I call those “ghost stories” because there’s no evidence 
that those nonlinearities exist, but I also can’t rule them out—like a ghost. Where do 
nonlinearities exist for sure? In the recession process. It’s almost impossible for the Board staff 
to generate recessions by shocking their models. You have to do something very nonlinear to 
actually get the economy into recessions. Yet recessions, in fact, happen. So we know there are 
nonlinearities in the recession process. There are no known nonlinearities in the inflation 
process, which says we should raise rates very slowly, only when we see the whites of inflation’s 
eyes. But we should be cutting rates aggressively because there are nonlinearities on the 
downside that lead to recessions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. Headline 
indicators of real activity remain solid, with fairly tight labor markets, strong consumption, and 
moderate GDP growth. However, we continue to fall short on our inflation goal. Furthermore, a 
number of headwinds are slowing growth, including soft business investment, ongoing trade 
uncertainty, and continued global weakening. In the absence of additional policy 
accommodation, these headwinds would reduce aggregate demand. Monetary policy can and 
should offset these effects with additional accommodation, and here I’m just echoing some of the 
things that Governor Clarida said earlier in his remarks. 

There are also longer-run factors that favor additional accommodation. We have now 
been below our inflation target for an extended period, and there are risks, as we discussed 
yesterday, to this persistent undershooting. If we don’t defend the target in these good times, it 
will be harder to convince people we will defend it in the future when the pressures are even 
greater, and here I completely agree with President Kashkari that we need to walk the walk 
today, because it’s going to be very difficult to convince people that our promises are real if we 
haven’t delivered it in these relatively good times. 
It is, therefore, appropriate that we move today to provide some of the requisite 
accommodation. In view of the lagged effects of monetary policy, we shouldn’t wait until the 
economy stalls before we act. Indeed, the good growth projected this year in the face of growing 
headwinds partly reflects our adoption of an easier stance of policy since December, which has 
mitigated their drag. 
As I discussed in July, declines in my estimate of r*, combined with a worrisome, 
persistent inflation shortfall, motivated the projection of two rate cuts in 2019. Today’s 25-basis-
point reduction would be the second of those two cuts. Since then, I have updated my forecast, 
which now calls for one additional cut this year. My downward revision of u*, combined with 
continued deterioration in global financial conditions and soft inflation readings, moves me to 
pencil in this additional accommodation. 
Should we be surprised to the upside, we can easily adjust that policy rate path. But a 
surprise to the downside is not as readily fixed. Except for a risk-management situation, in all of 
the framework memos that we’ve reviewed, it calls for being a little overaccommodative rather 
than underaccommodative. 

Importantly, I want to add that I’m not coming to this decision lightly. I’m not on a 
preset course. There are important concerns that have been raised about the desirability of 
today’s cut. First, there is the view that a cut would be ineffective in addressing the types of 
headwinds we currently face, and, therefore, it would be simply unwise. Though it is true that 
monetary policy cannot address all of our headwinds directly, our transmission channel for 
stimulating aggregate demand appears to be alive and well. Anecdotal reports given by some of 
my directors and data from the Mortgage Bankers Association show that household refinancing 
has increased markedly this year with falling mortgage interest rates. And my contacts in the 
banking sector tell me that these refis are not just taking equity out of their homes. They’re 
really just lowering payments or deleveraging, putting households in a better position to spend in 
the future. Our accommodative monetary policy during this period surely helped contribute to 
this pickup, and at least some of the robustness of consumption expenditures, such as auto sales, 
is likely also attributable to lower interest rates. 
The second concern that’s been raised is that our easier policy stance could raise some 
concerns for financial stability. But while some asset valuations remain elevated, with the 
exception of corporate debt, leverage ratios in most sectors of the financial system are within 
normal ranges, at least by their latest assessment in the QS. Moreover, the strong capital 
positions of our major financial institutions mitigate some of the risks of a systemic event. More 
to the point, we have a macroprudential toolkit that’s specifically designed and better placed to 
address financial vulnerabilities. Monetary policy is a blunt tool to stem financial “froth.” 
Additional accommodation seems unlikely to contribute to financial instability risks at present 
but helps in achieving our dual mandate. 

So, balancing all of these tradeoffs, I favor a 25-basis-point cut at today’s meeting. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. Since July, revisions to previous GDP and payroll 
employment data suggest that activity in 2018 was relatively weaker than was apparent earlier 
and that momentum going into this year was somewhat less. Although the recent domestic data 
have remained solid overall, we are seeing a clearer deceleration in the labor market. Since our 
July meeting, risks to the downside associated with more persistent trade policy uncertainty and 
weakness in global growth have become more prominent, and we’ve also seen some geopolitical 
risks. Against the backdrop of muted inflation, risk management supports the case for today’s 
25 basis point cut in the federal funds rate. 
The labor market remains strong. The unemployment rate and initial claims for 
unemployment insurance are hovering near historical lows. But the pace of payroll growth has 
slowed, and the pace last year was a continuation from the previous year rather than an 
acceleration as we thought at the time of the July meeting. 
Against the backdrop of strong employment and higher disposable income, strong 
consumer spending has continued to power aggregate demand, and sentiment remains quite 
favorable. However, the weakness in business fixed investment and manufacturing production 
has extended, and exports have disappointed. The risk is that this weakness might spread more 
broadly, leading not only to lower cap-ex, as we’ve already seen, but also, ultimately, to slower 
hiring and lower consumer confidence. 
The escalation of trade conflict since we last met poses significant downside risks. 
Uncertainty surrounding global supply chains and trade rules appears to have increased and 

could further damp business investment and sentiment and exacerbate the challenges related to 
weak foreign growth. Several foreign central banks have added accommodation to address their 
growth and inflation disappointments, which in turn has implications for financial conditions and 
inflationary developments here. 
Although the recent data on prices have come in broadly in line with expectations, 
inflation continues to fall short of our target. And with a variety of statistical models suggesting 
underlying trend inflation is running about 1.8 percent persistently, it is imperative that we 
remain visibly committed to moving trend as well as realized inflation back up to 2 percent and 
not allow expectations to drift down. 
Finally, a variety of market-based recession indicators are flashing warning signs with 
growing urgency. 
So, from a risk-management perspective, the downside risks to output and employment 
from elevated trade uncertainty at a time when inflation is on the soft side would, on their own, 
warrant a small downward adjustment to the modal path for policy, especially considering we’re 
operating in an environment of a low and uncertain neutral rate and reduced conventional policy 
space. 
The one reason to be cautious about our projected low-for-long path, with growth running 
above or close to its potential pace, is the risk of exacerbating imbalances in financial and credit 
markets. I agree with Eric and Esther. Experience suggests that financial market risk appetite 
and private-sector leverage are strongly procyclical, and we see clear signs of that in current 
elevated risky corporate debt and the associated asset valuations. We should be addressing these 
financial imbalances by augmenting bank buffers countercyclically. Instead, we’ve seen 

common equity Tier 1 come down by about 1 percent over the past two years at our largest 
banks, and we continue to allow payouts to exceed earnings. 
As reflected in my SEP submission, I anticipate a modest downward tilt to the path for 
the federal funds rate, and alternative B signals continued openness to additional policy 
adjustments if the incoming data warrant. That said, I don’t see the case for moving with greater 
force today. While additional accommodation can help with residential investment, consumer 
durables, and the exchange rate, access to credit doesn’t appear, as others have said, to be an 
issue for businesses, as suggested by the NFIB, the Beige Book, and the SCOOS. Instead, 
business sentiment and the behavior of business investment appear to reflect fundamental 
uncertainty tied to policy. 
One important question is how much monetary policy can address the fundamental 
changes that businesses increasingly appear to think they may be facing on the rules of 
engagement on trade and the potential for permanent alterations to supply chains. And I think 
my thinking here also reflects the conversations that Governor Clarida mentioned earlier. As 
Brexit illustrates more starkly, the potential for fundamental changes to trade rules, with the 
possibility for some capital to become stranded, has important features of a supply shock that 
monetary policy alone cannot address. But, if business pessimism tips and we see a pullback in 
hiring, this could quickly spread to consumer sentiment and pose greater downside risks to 
aggregate demand. So I’ll be watching very carefully for signs of that kind of tipping in the 
incoming data. 
Finally, I agree with concerns that were expressed by President Barkin, Governor 
Quarles, and others that the phrase “sustain the expansion” doesn’t actually describe our dual 
mandate very precisely and does have this risk that, over time, we could own a problem that goes 

well beyond our toolkit. So although it’s not something I would suggest that we consider 
altering now—and recognizing that any change to our language will be overinterpreted—I do 
think we should be thinking about a path to change our language there. 
Lastly, I will say that the turbulence we have seen in repo markets is precisely the kind of 
outcome we were seeking to avoid by running an ample-reserves regime. I don’t see the benefit 
to continuing to shrink reserves by another $10 billion to $15 billion per month, if it comes at the 
cost of more ad hoc responses to turbulence in repo markets and at a time when it could muddy 
our message on monetary policy. So I do look forward to having options in front of us regarding 
the resumption of organic balance sheet growth, as well as potential other facilities, soon and 
preferably signaling that today. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I, rather strangely, had exactly the 
same dream that President Bullard had. [Laughter] I’m not sure if the word “dream” is the right 
one, but I, too, found myself in a world in which I wasn’t able to read the documents because the 
letters were strange. But unlike President Bullard’s dream, at the end, after very careful study 
and research, I was able to translate the options in front of me—when they all said alternative B 
[Laughter] So I support alternative B as written. 
As has been the case for most of the year, the economic outlook and associated policy 
considerations are complex. I think the discussion today and at our previous meetings reflects 
that. I think everyone is weighing all of these issues—the same issues—and coming to slightly 
different places, perhaps, but these are all very pertinent, relevant concerns that we’re thinking 
through. 

Although the expansion remains intact, cyclical downturns in many major economies, 
trade policy tensions, and geopolitical risks are weighing on the economic outlook. On the 
inflation front, measures of inflation expectations obtained from financial markets and provided 
by surveys remain too low for comfort. The ongoing weakness in inflation represents a 
persistent challenge facing us, interacting with and compounding the uncertainties on the real 
side of the economy. 
Now, the best response to the outlook, an outlook of slowing growth, low inflation, and 
elevated uncertainties, is—I’m going to say it—to remain focused on keeping the expansion on 
track. I do think that is what we’re trying to do right now. I want to see real GDP growth around 
or slightly above the trend rate. And when thinking about the stance of monetary policy, I don’t 
think of this as very accommodative. 
My own view is that the nominal neutral rate is 2.4 percent. We’re talking about being 
roughly 50 basis points below that. Against the background of the low rate of inflation that 
we’re seeing and the uncertainties about the economy, that doesn’t seem like excessive insurance 
to me. But there is definitely some insurance there. 
I am concerned about the signals we’re getting from the yield curve. They have been 
persistent—volatile but persistent. And it’s appropriate for policy to act preemptively, given the 
dangers of recession, as President Kashkari highlighted. 
Today’s action will support accommodative financial conditions and help support growth 
and progress toward our 2 percent inflation goal. I think it positions us well for the uncertainties 
and risks ahead of us. 
I have just one brief comment about how I view the monetary transmission mechanism. 
This is echoing comments by President Daly and Governor Brainard, and it actually echoes 

comments given by the Chair in Jackson Hole. Yes, we’re seeing the trade and other 
uncertainties hit particular parts of the economy—business fixed investment—and exports hitting 
manufacturing. And I don’t see any policy actions that we’re contemplating actually directly 
fixing or rectifying the weakness in those particular sectors. I mean, that would never really be 
the case. 
The question really is, how do we get the aggregate economy to the place consistent with 
our dual-mandate goals? So when you think about it, I think more favorable financial 
conditions, both in our models and in the real world, are not really about boosting business fixed 
investment. Even in the FRB/US model—many, many years ago, we did a Federal Reserve 
Bulletin article and looked at the question: Within the FRB/US model, how does a funds rate cut 
or hike, whatever, affect the economy? And it’s through the effect on broad financial conditions, 
the effect on the dollar, and the effect on residential and consumer spending. So the business 
fixed investment channel is a relatively small part of that even in our models. I think what we’re 
trying to do here is get to a somewhat accommodative stance of policy, try to offset some of 
these negative effects on the real economy, which I think are actually in the data now—they’re 
not just in the forecast—keep the overall economy growing at or slightly above its trend rate of 
increase, and help facilitate the return of our 2 percent inflation goal. 
So, again, I think this is the way monetary policy works in our models. I think this is 
what we’re seeing, as President Daly mentioned, and I don’t see this as a race to zero. I think my 
own view—and I think you’re seeing this in the dot plot—is that this is more of this adjustment 
to just get the stance of monetary policy consistent with continued growth and reaching our goals 
as best we can. Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And thanks, everybody, for your comments. I do see 
and acknowledge the diversity of perspectives around the table. I would say it’s a challenging 
time for policy, and I’ll just repeat that I do value, respect, and understand the different 
perspectives that people have. I expect I’ll have the opportunity to say that again. I’ve had a lot 
of practice saying that. [Laughter] Why should today be any different? Anyway, I do mean it, 
and I just would say, it’s a challenging time, and people are in different places. 
So, with that, let me now ask Jim Clouse to make clear what the FOMC will vote on and 
to read the roll. Following the FOMC vote, the Board will vote on interest rates on reserves and 
discount rates. Jim. 
MR. CLOUSE. Thank you. The vote will encompass the monetary policy statement as it 
appears on page 4 of Thomas’s briefing materials. There are some minor revisions to the 
implementation note, and let me just be clear about those. The FOMC vote will encompass the 
directive to the Desk as it appears mostly in the implementation note shown on pages 8 and 9 of 
Thomas’s briefing materials, but with an amendment to reflect a 30 basis point reduction in the 
overnight reverse RP rate to incorporate the technical adjustment, as discussed by the Chair. 
And then, as the Chair noted, shortly he’ll be calling for the usual Board vote on interest 
rates on reserves. Those rates will also be reduced 30 basis points—again, to incorporate the 
technical adjustment. 
Finally, in past implementation notes, when there has been a technical adjustment, we’ve 
inserted a sentence to emphasize the role of interest rates on reserves in supporting the 
Committee’s decision, and we would suggest incorporating that again. That sentence will read 
“Setting the interest rate paid on required and excess reserve balances 20 basis points below the 

top of the target range for the federal funds rate is intended to foster trading in the federal funds 
market at rates well within the FOMC’s target range.” 
And with that, I’ll call the roll. 
Chair Powell Yes 
Vice Chair Williams Yes 
Governor Bowman Yes 
Governor Brainard Yes 
President Bullard No 
Governor Clarida Yes 
President Evans Yes 
President George No 
President Rosengren No 
Governor Quarles Yes 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Now we have two sets of related matters under the 
Board’s jurisdiction: corresponding interest rates on reserves and discount rates. May I have a 
motion from a Board member to take the proposed action with respect to the interest rates on 
reserves as set forth in the first paragraph associated with policy alternative B on the second-to-
last page of Thomas’s briefing materials as amended, as Jim just went over? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. May I now have a motion from a 
Board member to take the proposed actions with respect to the primary credit rate and the rates 
for secondary and seasonal credit as set forth in the second paragraph associated with policy 
alternative B on the second-to-last page of Thomas’s briefing materials as amended? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 

MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. So ordered. Thank you very much, everyone. 
Our next meeting is October 29 and 30. That concludes this meeting, and lunch will be served in 
about an hour. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Chair Powell, I totally agree with you that we’ve had a very 
robust discussion, and this has been very healthy. But I will admit, maybe something we could 
do to improve this would be, perhaps if we had two flags down [laughter] at the end of the table 
to perhaps provide more support for those of us— 
MR. CLARIDA. Well, on cue. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Is there a solution for this? [Laughter] 
MR. QUARLES. It’s set. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Aha. Very—there we go. Anyone else? [Laughter] Thank 
you, I think we’ve solved that. 
CHAIR POWELL. Yes. Thank you so much for that. [Laughter] And with that, we are 
adjourned. 
END OF MEETING

===== FOMC MEETING 2019-10-30 =====

Meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
October 29–30, 2019 
 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board of Governors was held in 
the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on 
Tuesday, October 29, 2019, at 9:00 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, October 30, 2019, at 
9:00 a.m. 
 
PRESENT: 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
James Bullard 
Richard H. Clarida 
Charles L. Evans 
Esther L. George 
Randal K. Quarles 
Eric Rosengren 
 
Patrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Michael Strine, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
 
Thomas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, and Mary C. Daly, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively 
 
James A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Michael Held, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
Thomas Laubach, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
 
Rochelle M. Edge, Eric M. Engen, Anna Paulson, Christopher J. Waller, William Wascher, 
and Beth Anne Wilson, Associate Economists 
 
Lorie K. Logan, Manager pro tem, System Open Market Account 
 
Ann E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 

Eric Belsky,1 Director, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors; 
Matthew J. Eichner,2 Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board of Governors; Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors 
 
Jennifer J. Burns, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, Board of 
Governors; Daniel M. Covitz, Deputy Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board 
of Governors; Michael T. Kiley, Deputy Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors; Trevor A. Reeve, Deputy Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Joshua Gallin, Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Brian M. Doyle, Wendy E. Dunn, Joseph W. Gruber, Ellen E. Meade, and Ivan Vidangos, 
Special Advisers to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Shaghil Ahmed, Senior Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors; David E. Lebow, Senior Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, 
Board of Governors 
 
Antulio N. Bomfim, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Michael Hsu,
3 Associate Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, Board of 
Governors; David López-Salido and Min Wei, Associate Directors, Division of Monetary 
Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Glenn Follette, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of 
Governors; Christopher J. Gust, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors; Jeffrey D. Walker,
2 Deputy Associate Director, Division of Reserve 
Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board of Governors; Paul R. Wood,1 Deputy 
Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors 
 
Eric C. Engstrom, Senior Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, and Deputy Associate 
Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
 
1 Attended the discussion of the review of monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices. 
2 Attended through the discussion of the review of options for repo operations to support control of the federal funds 
rate. 
3 Attended the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations through the discussion of 
the review of options for repo operations to support control of the federal funds rate. 

Stephanie E. Curcuru, Assistant Director, Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors; Giovanni Favara, Laura Lipscomb,3 Zeynep Senyuz,3 and Rebecca Zarutskie,1 
Assistant Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Shane M. Sherlund, 
Assistant Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Penelope A. Beattie,
4 Section Chief, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors; Matthew 
Malloy,3 Section Chief, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Mark A. Carlson,2 Senior Economic Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board 
of Governors 
 
David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Alyssa G. Anderson,3 Anna Orlik, and Bernd Schlusche,1 Principal Economists, Division of 
Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Cristina Fuentes-Albero1 and Christopher J. 
Nekarda,5 Principal Economists, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Valerie Hinojosa, Senior Information Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
Kelly J. Dubbert, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
 
David Altig, Kartik B. Athreya, Jeffrey Fuhrer, and Glenn D. Rudebusch, Executive Vice 
Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Richmond, Boston, and San Francisco, 
respectively 
 
Angela O’Connor,
3 Marc Giannoni,1 Paolo A. Pesenti, Samuel Schulhofer-Wohl,3 Raymond 
Testa,3 and Nathaniel Wuerffel,3 Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of New 
York, Dallas, New York, Chicago, New York, and New York, respectively 
 
Satyajit Chatterjee, Richard K. Crump,5 George A. Kahn, Rebecca McCaughrin,3 and 
Patricia Zobel,6 Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, New York, Kansas 
City, New York, and New York, respectively 
 
Larry Wall,1 Executive Director, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
 
Edward S. Prescott, Senior Economic and Policy Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland 
 
Nicolas Petrosky-Nadeau,
5 Senior Research Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
 
 
4 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. 
5 Attended the discussion of economic developments and the outlook. 
6 Attended the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations through the end of the 
meeting. 

Stefania D’Amico1 and Thomas B. King,1 Senior Economists and Research Advisors, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
 
Alex Richter, Senior Research Economist and Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
 
Benjamin Malin, Senior Research Economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 

Transcript of the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting on 
October 29–30, 2019 
 
October 29 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. 
PARTICIPANTS. Good morning. 
CHAIR POWELL. Feel free to come to order just any old time. [Laughter] This 
meeting, as usual, will be a joint meeting of the FOMC and the Board. I need a motion from a 
Board member to close the meeting. 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Our first agenda item is the third installment of 
our strategic review of the monetary policy framework. Let’s get started with the staff briefings 
from Rebecca Zarutskie and Stefania D’Amico. Rebecca, over to you. 
MS. ZARUTSKIE.
1 Thank you, Mr. Chair. As you continue your deliberations 
about the monetary policy framework, we turn to a discussion of the monetary policy 
tools that the Committee might employ to provide additional economic stimulus and 
bolster inflation outcomes in future episodes at the ELB and even before such 
episodes may occur. I will begin by discussing considerations regarding the use of 
the policy rate tool, focusing on different forms of forward guidance and the 
associated communications challenges, as well as briefly touching on negative 
interest rate policy. Stefania will then discuss considerations regarding the use of the 
balance sheet tool. 
Regarding slide 1, central banks have employed forward guidance at the ELB to 
communicate their intentions to keep policy rates low for an extended period of time 
or until macroeconomic conditions are sufficiently improved. Forward guidance can 
provide additional policy stimulus when understood by the public as a credible 
commitment to keep monetary policy more accommodative than would have been 
expected absent the guidance. More recently, a few central banks have taken their 
policy rates below zero, in an attempt to create more space for monetary policy 
accommodation. The empirical evidence so far indicates that these tools have been 
generally effective in easing financial conditions and stimulating economic activity. 
But, the effectiveness of these tools has varied across economic and institutional 
 
1 The materials used by Mses. Zarutskie and D’Amico are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). 

settings. A key lesson learned is that policy design and communications are 
important factors underlying these tools’ effectiveness. 
On slide 2, I summarize the variants of forward guidance used at the ELB. 
Forward guidance can be broadly classified as qualitative (that is, providing a 
flexible, nonspecific indication of the duration of accommodation), date based 
(providing a specific date beyond which accommodation could start to be removed), 
and outcome based (tying the removal of accommodation to the achievement of 
particular quantifiable macroeconomic outcomes). Empirically, there is a reasonably 
strong case that date-based and outcome-based forward guidance are more effective 
in lowering policy rate expectations than qualitative forward guidance. However, the 
experience so far leads to no firm conclusion about the relative effectiveness of date-
based versus outcome-based forward guidance. For example, the implementation of 
date-based forward guidance in the United States was associated with a large decline 
in policy expectations and bond yields. But, the subsequent introduction of outcome-
based forward guidance in 2012 did not result in a material shift in financial market 
prices. However, the outcome-based guidance was specifically intended to be 
consistent with the earlier date-based guidance (and the accompanying FOMC 
statement made this explicit), so a muted market response was perhaps to be 
expected. 
As noted on slide 3, whichever form of forward guidance is used, a key goal is to 
avoid conveying a more negative economic outlook than intended. Empirical studies 
have found a somewhat tepid financial market response to forward guidance, on 
average, compared with what some models would predict. One reason may be that 
announcements about future reductions in expected policy rates have in some cases 
been misinterpreted as conveying news about a deterioration of the central bank's 
economic outlook. Therefore, it is important to distinguish easing intended to provide 
additional accommodation given the outlook from easing taken in response to 
changes in the outlook itself. The Committee has several tools that can be used to 
help support and reinforce its forward guidance. The Summary of Economic 
Projections, or SEP, though not an official consensus forecast, can provide an 
indication of the Committee’s thinking about the course of policy and the associated 
macroeconomic outlook. Coordinated balance sheet policies may help reinforce 
forward guidance credibility. Finally, forward guidance can feature escape clauses 
that guard against unwanted circumstances, such as an unanchoring of inflation 
expectations or overheating in the financial system. Escape clauses can detract from 
the simplicity of forward guidance, but they allow the Committee additional 
flexibility and may help clarify the conditions under which forward guidance will 
remain in place. 
On slide 4, I summarize some key considerations for the Committee in its possible 
future design of forward guidance. Although date-based forward guidance seems 
particularly easy to communicate, it may not give the Committee sufficient scope to 
respond to incoming data and, if the provided dates are frequently revised, may also 
run the risk of losing credibility. Consequently, date-based forward guidance seems 
most appropriate when the Committee is reasonably certain that the guidance will not 

be frequently revised. Outcome-based forward guidance automatically conditions the 
Committee’s actions on incoming data but may pose greater communications 
challenges, and it may also be less effective in reducing uncertainty about the course 
of policy. Outcome-based forward guidance is therefore likely to be appropriate and 
most effective when it conditions on easily measured and communicated outcomes. 
More generally, any forward guidance meant to provide greater accommodation 
requires a well-thought-out communication strategy. Avoiding overly complex and 
vague language and taking care that escape clauses are clearly defined and limited in 
number can enhance the clarity of forward guidance. 
As noted on slide 5, forward guidance could also be used when policy rates are 
away from the ELB. In general, there is limited empirical evidence on the 
effectiveness of forward guidance away from the ELB, but a few studies have shown 
that such forward guidance could be effective in altering expectations about the future 
course of policy. For example, in the current situation, it may be possible to use 
forward guidance to reinforce the Committee’s commitment to return to its inflation 
target. If successful, this could serve to raise inflation expectations. 
Finally, in slide 6, I review the evidence on the effectiveness of negative interest 
rate policy. Negative interest rate policy has been implemented by the BOJ, the ECB, 
and several other central banks in Europe, although none has taken policy rates below 
negative 1 percent. Experience with negative interest rate policy is still somewhat 
limited, but it appears that such policies have eased financial conditions and 
supported economic activity, on balance. However, concurrent use of negative 
interest rate policy with other unconventional monetary policy tools makes it difficult 
to isolate the independent contribution of negative interest rate policy. Adverse 
effects stemming from negative rates on banks and other financial institutions appear 
to have been limited so far, in part because policies such as deposit tiering have 
helped alleviate pressures on banks’ profitability. Differences between the U.S. 
financial system and the financial systems in countries that have used negative 
interest rate policy call for caution when generalizing from foreign experiences. For 
example, money market funds play a much larger role in the United States, and 
implementing an effective negative-rate policy would require a host of operational 
changes both within the Federal Reserve and in the larger financial system. 
I now turn to Stefania to review the experience and considerations regarding the 
balance sheet tool. 
MS. D’AMICO. Thank you, Rebecca. I will summarize the memo titled “Issues 
in the Use of the Balance Sheet Tool.” 
In the memo, and as noted on slide 7, we consider a variety of options for 
implementing balance sheet policy, and for each of these options we summarize the 
most relevant benefits and costs. First, we review balance sheet policies already 
implemented by the Federal Reserve—that is, quantitative easing, or QE, which 
includes maturity-extension programs. Second, we discuss flow-based versus fixed-
size asset purchase programs. Third, we consider balance sheet policies that place 

ceilings on interest rates by adjusting the balance sheet size as necessary, a form of 
yield curve control. Finally, we review balance sheet policies involving assets other 
than government bonds. 
As outlined on slide 8, in the case of previous QE programs, empirical findings 
point to benefits such as a significant pass-through to prices of higher-quality private 
assets, an increase in bank lending and risk tolerance, a faster recovery of the labor 
market, and a modestly higher inflation rate than in the absence of QE. Those 
benefits were accompanied by certain costs, including communication challenges 
arising from the novelty of the tool and the use of multiple tools, some degree of 
nonproductive risk-taking behavior by investors, and some political risks related to 
the volatility of remittances. 
The question of whether QE has diminishing returns is discussed on slide 9. 
Overall, the evidence available so far suggests that the marginal benefits of QE 
programs did not diminish. Specifically, empirical work that carefully controls for 
investor expectations about balance sheet policy finds that financial market effects of 
QE announcements and associated macroeconomic effects do not seem to have 
declined across consecutive programs. Further, model-based evidence on the 
interaction of balance sheet policy with financial constraints shows that tighter 
financial constraints can either magnify or damp QE’s macroeconomic effects. And, 
even in normal times, there are collateral constraints that can make QE effective. 
However, it may be hard to extrapolate such evidence to states in which there are very 
low levels of longer-term interest rates. For example, looking ahead, it is conceivable 
that the duration-risk channel might be weakened amid extended periods at the ELB 
that lower interest rate volatility, making changes to the average duration of 
investors’ portfolio less effective. In addition, if longer-term interest rates are already 
very low at the onset of QE, there is less scope for QE to reduce them, similar to any 
other policy working through a reduction in interest rates. 
On slide 10, which discusses flow-based programs similar to QE3, we find that 
the main benefits of these programs derive from their state-contingent nature, which 
implies an automatic stabilizing function—that is, more stimulus when the economy 
deteriorates, and vice versa. This feature should increase investor confidence in the 
FOMC’s ability to make timely policy adjustments. This could result in faster 
adjustments to investor expectations. Further, aligning the state contingencies of the 
flow-based program with those of forward guidance attenuates the risk of the two 
tools working at cross-purposes. The state-contingent nature comes at the cost of 
higher investor uncertainty about the magnitude and persistence of the reduction in 
asset supply induced by the program, which can delay or diminish its full effect 
because of slower or only partial portfolio rebalancing. Flow-based programs also 
entail the risk of a very large balance sheet. However, aligning the state 
contingencies of those programs and forward guidance could increase their 
complementarity and credibility, likely helping contain the programs’ size. 
Slide 11 focuses on rate ceilings as a form of yield curve targeting. Compared 
with strict targets, rate ceilings do not require policy to tighten when yields decline 

following a worsening economy. Ceilings could be placed on either shorter- or 
longer-term rates. Ceilings on short rates might reinforce forward guidance’s 
credibility, and the associated balance sheet expansion would be easier to unwind 
because the securities acquired would have shorter maturities. By contrast, ceilings 
on longer-term rates would affect rates more relevant for the economic decisions of 
households and businesses but may be harder to maintain because longer-term rates 
are more sensitive to factors other than monetary policy. Both types of ceilings 
should be particularly effective in reducing interest rate volatility and tail risks in 
addition to helping maintain a particular level of rates. However, in common with 
flow-based programs, rate ceilings are associated with high uncertainty about the total 
amount of asset purchases, which may delay market responses. In addition, it may 
become costly to defend the ceiling toward the end of the program as investors sell 
securities in force in anticipation of the lift of the ceiling. 
As highlighted on slide 12, central banks have employed balance sheet policies 
that involve assets other than government bonds, such as the purchases of mortgage-
backed securities conducted by the Federal Reserve as well as corporate bond 
purchases and “funding for lending” programs conducted by foreign central banks. 
The main benefit of these balance sheet policies is that they directly target specific 
economic sectors and, hence, seem more effective than government bond purchases 
in improving credit spreads and debt issuance in the targeted markets. However, even 
if legally permitted, such programs may create political risk for the Committee 
because they could be interpreted as engaging in credit allocation, and some of these 
balance sheet policies entail taking increased credit risk. 
The last slide concludes with the consideration that it would be valuable for the 
Committee to have a variety of balance sheet policy options and employ the ones that 
best fit the economic situation that it faces. For instance, flow-based programs are 
likely to be a better response to a sequence of adverse and persistent demand shocks, 
as their expected size adjusts automatically to the changing state of the economy. If 
those shocks are not expected to persist, short-rate ceilings combined with forward 
guidance could better control rates over the near term without using significant 
balance sheet capacity. By contrast, a fixed-size program concentrated in longer-term 
securities might be preferable in the case of a one-time large demand shock, as it can 
activate a faster and larger portfolio rebalance. 
Thank you. This concludes my prepared remarks, and we would be happy to 
address any questions you may have. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks very much. Any questions for Rebecca and Stefania? 
President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. You’ve given us a very comprehensive list of both things that we 
did during the previous financial crisis and things that we could consider. I wonder, as I think 

about the scenarios that we should be worried about: We’re in a world in which many European 
countries and Japan have zero across the yield curve. We have a 10-year Treasury rate in the 
United States that got as low as 1½ percent in an environment of 2 percent real GDP growth. So 
what probability would you attach to actually having the long rate at zero by the time we have 
negative GDP growth? And, if so, do we need more of a discussion about what we do? 
A lot of these things assume there’s enough room, that there’s a bunch of actions we can 
take at the long end of the market, but, given how low we’re starting at at this point across the 
yield curve—you talk about it in page 13—do you think we’re doing enough stress testing of our 
own thinking in the low interest rate environment to take into account the probability that the 
yield curve is already at zero by the time we’re thinking about actions to take with the balance 
sheet? 
In other words, if the short end and long end hit zero roughly at the same time, which is a 
very different scenario than what we faced during the crisis—so you don’t put as much time in 
the memos on that. I wonder is it because you think it’s a low-probability event or it’s more just 
a reflection of what we did the last time? 
MS. D’AMICO. With regard to the probability of the 10-year yield, for example, to be at 
zero by the time we start, it is very hard to say because right now there are headwinds that keep it 
lower—for example, foreign demand of our Treasury securities and uncertainty induced by trade 
policy—and all these things might change pretty fast. 
In that case, the 10-year yield would increase faster, but in the case that the 10-year yield 
is already at the zero lower bound it is not necessarily true that the entire yield curve is at the 
zero lower bound. In that case, you might want to concentrate the purchases, say, for example, 

in the 20- to 30-year sector, which would help you remove a lot of duration risk from the 
portfolio’s of private investors. 
But even in that case, when you remove duration risk in an environment in which long-
term rates have been near zero, have been very low for a long time, it happens that interest rate 
volatility is much more compressed. This effect operates when the federal funds rate gets to the 
lower bound. So you might have a series of nonlinearities that make the effectiveness of QE 
weaker, and, in particular, the duration risk channel becomes weaker because interest rate 
volatility is lower, and that is one of the main drivers of the duration risk channel part of the 
effect of QE. 
And, further, precisely as in the case of when the federal funds rate is at the lower bound, 
if the 10-year yield is also very low, there is a high chance that you don’t have the room or space 
to reduce it. But it is also true that, for example, some other channel or scarcity effect might get 
stronger because if all the Treasury securities are already in investor portfolios and there are very 
few securities left in the market, then people might be more reluctant to get rid of their Treasury 
securities, and so the scarcity effect might get stronger. 
Moreover, in this type of environment, maybe using a policy measure that reduces 
interest rates is not the most effective policy. You might want to use direct lending. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. We had this discussion yesterday, but just building on that question, the 
one question I’d ask: So this is a tools-based approach, which is very appropriate, but then 
there’s another approach that we use on financial stability often, which is a scenario-based 
tabletop approach. And I’m just wondering, which—it strikes me we would do both, because, 
through the scenario-based approach and doing a “tabletop” exercise, we may learn some things 

that put these tools in different contexts. Have you all talked about us maybe doing a “tabletop” 
in this case for monetary policy as opposed to the one we do for financial stability? 
MS. D’AMICO. Sorry, I’m not sure about the reference to “tabletop.” 
MR. LAUBACH. I think the short answer, President Kaplan, is no. We have not yet 
thought about a “tabletop” exercise in monetary policy space of the kind you thought about in 
financial stability space. That certainly is something interesting to think about. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. Thank you for the inclusion of forward guidance away 
from the ELB. You said a few policymakers have suggested this. I’d welcome the company. 
[Laughter] In the memo, you wrote, “If successful, the resulting increase in inflation 
expectations would raise the neutral nominal rate of interest. Therefore, implementing this 
policy without allowing inflation to exceed substantially the Committee’s 2 percent goal poses a 
novel challenge.” 
I went over those sentences with my staff at some length trying to understand what you 
mean. I think what you’re getting at is, this might be too powerful. That seems like a high-class 
problem given the discussion that we had. Did I understand it correctly? 
MS. ZARUTSKIE. I think that’s generally right. That sentence was meant to convey the 
presence of a different set of risks associated with such a forward guidance policy, which would 
be different than the forward guidance used in the past. And one possible risk is that you allow 
inflation to exceed its target, if the policy works—and there’s some question about whether it 
would actually work. So I agree that the risk that we mention in the memo is actually a kind of 
risk that some policymakers might welcome, which is that you might get behind the inflation 

curve. That is certainly not a problem we have right now, but, yes, that is what we meant by that 
sentence. 
MR. KASHKARI. Okay. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I didn’t prepare this question, so I can’t recall 
exactly the precise language, but it has to do with qualitative forward guidance. And I remember 
back to one of my directors who, when we first introduced “extended period” back in 2008–09, 
said to me, “Charlie, what does ‘extended period’ mean?” 
And, one way or another, it very quickly became, in most people’s talking points, 
“probably six months.” Of course, it was in the end much longer than six months. And he made 
comments about this when he retired from the Board of Directors, you know, to make me look 
not very good. Anyway, he’s very nice and all of that. 
But the precise intention sometimes is not exactly clear. We improve that when—the one 
I wanted to focus on, I think it’s related to what President Kashkari is getting at because, if I 
understand, you’d want to craft some type of forward guidance that would say “We’re going to 
keep cutting the funds rate until inflation gets up to 2 percent, maybe, or we’re going to hold at 
this particular level of accommodation?” where I’m not sure how the level of accommodation 
would be defined. Because we’re not at the lower bound it becomes more challenging, and 
would it be close to 2 percent or clearly going to 2 percent or forecast above 2 percent? 
I’m sympathetic to all of those things, but it really becomes challenging, and I think we 
had the same type of issue with QE3, when—this is the part that I didn’t prepare—my memory 
is, we said we’re going to continue to buy $85 billion of assets every month until we see 
substantial improvement in the labor market outlook. And that strikes me as something pretty 

particular, but not precise. And so any thoughts on distinctions between—is that qualitative? Is 
it getting closer to outcome based? It’s an open-ended question. 
MS. ZARUTSKIE. Tom, my coauthor, is sitting here as a backup. Maybe we’ll both 
take a shot at your question. 
We have these three broad distinctions, or classifications, of forward guidance. But, in 
reality, most forward guidance is a blend of these types. And I would classify that particular 
instance as perhaps either “vague outcome based” or “more precise qualitative.” It’s somewhere 
in the middle. I don’t know if you have anything to add to that, Tom. 
MR. KING. Yes, I would say the same thing—that that’s clearly outcome based, but the 
outcome is rather vague, and there are other instances of that at other central banks as well. 
MR. EVANS. It highlights the difficulty of bucketing these precisely. Thanks. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Thank you. Further questions? [No response] Seeing none, 
why don’t we begin the go-round with Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. And a special thank you to the staff and the 
steering committee for the memos on balance sheet and forward guidance tools that we might 
consider adding to the toolkit. 
I will have some specific observations on the toolkit in a moment, but please allow me 
right now to offer some general observations on the framework review and what is planned for 
upcoming meetings. As we’ve understood from the start, the framework review is ambitious in 
scope, a scope that covers a range of changes to strategies, the toolkit, and communication. 
In September we had staff briefings on framework alternatives to inflation targeting, and 
we have briefings scheduled in December on “takeaways” from the very successful 14 Fed 
Listens events as well as the transmission mechanism. Importantly, for the December meeting 

we will have a memo from the steering committee and a first go-round in this room on potential 
revisions to the consensus statement, which will be the most important deliverable from this 
framework review process. 
The subcommittee has now “reached out” to all 17 members of the FOMC to get an 
initial read of where we are going into our December meeting, and it is fair to say that there is a 
range of views and priorities among us, but a couple of common themes do emerge. First, there 
is no one of us who appears to be advocating right now that we adopt a formal price level or 
numerical average inflation target. This is important, because it means that what we will be 
discussing starting in December is how this Committee defines the way that we implement and 
communicate our flexible inflation-targeting regime. 
Now, that being said, there’s also broad agreement on the need for at least some revision 
and refinement and clarification of the ways that we conceive of and explain our framework. In 
our July and September discussions, as well as the outreach conversations that the subcommittee 
has had with you, they’ve highlighted at least six elements of the consensus statement that 
deserve our attention and consideration for possible refinement, revision, or clarification. And 
we’ve discussed these before, but just to summarize, the way that the statement conceives of and 
defines price stability, right now it’s in the long run. I won’t necessarily embrace John Maynard 
Keynes’s comment that in the long run we’re all dead, but we might find ways to expand upon 
the way we think about price stability. 
We’ve discussed the concept of symmetry. We don’t even in this room agree what 
symmetry means, and I think from the point of view of the perception of our strategy, it would be 
useful to refine and define what symmetry means. 

The important role of inflation expectations—right now, the statement essentially asserts 
that by announcing a 2 percent target, we anchor inflation expectations. I think we would agree 
that that’s not sufficient. They’ve announced a target in Japan, the euro zone, and it’s not 
working. So, I think, a little bit more substance on inflation expectations. 
Many of us have views about the way we think of and define maximum employment and, 
relatedly, the balanced approach, and I think we got a lot of good feedback in the initial surveys 
of ways that we might improve that. 
There’s no acknowledgement now on the consensus statement on the effective lower 
bound, and I think a number of us believe that putting that in the statement, as well as potentially 
relating that to additions to the toolkit, could be useful. 
And then, finally, number six, the current statement does make reference to financial 
stability, but many of you have suggested that it would be important to think about that in the 
context of some of these other ideas. 
Now, we will likely need more than one FOMC go-round on revisions to the consensus 
statement to achieve convergence, and so I do expect these discussions to continue at least 
through our January 2020 meeting—again, with memos from the steering committee and a full 
go-round at that meeting. If this is the case, the minutes of the December meeting can convey 
the message that the framework review is ongoing, and that the Committee expects to finalize the 
review and report sometime in the first half of 2020. This is exactly consistent with what we’ve 
said since day one about the framework review—so it shouldn’t come as any news to folks who 
have been following this. 
Now, in terms of the ultimate deliverables, the most important, of course, would be any 
revision to or refinement of or clarifications in the consensus statement. Several of you have 

also suggested that we will want to prepare an addendum to the consensus statement that will lay 
out in more detail than the one-page statement itself how we expect to implement our strategy. 
And this addendum would be a natural vehicle for any discussion and analysis of new tools that 
we would decide to add to our toolkit. 
In terms of communication, the subcommittee is well advanced on developing a set of 
recommendations for this Committee for improving the SEP, the presentation of the minutes, and 
the format of the policy statement. The subcommittee plans to reserve time at a future FOMC 
meeting to present these recommendations for your consideration and, of course, to have a full 
go-round on that. And we would expect that a statement laying out these changes to the SEP, if 
adopted, would be released to the public at the same time that we issue any revised consensus 
statement. 
Chair Powell, in my remaining time, allow me a couple of takeaways on the balance 
sheet and forward-guidance discussion that we just had. I knew when I walked in here today that 
President Rosengren is a man of many talents, but one of them is reading my mind. So I’m 
going to say something very correlated with what he just said. 
One thing that I did not see in the memo is a sufficient recognition of not only the limits 
of the effective lower bound on the policy rate, but potentially also an effective lower bound on 
the feasible magnitude of a negative term premium that would put a limit on the amount of 
easing in financial conditions that we could expect to result from flattening the yield curve. 
Indeed, I think, potentially, that is a real risk of thinking that we could literally double down on 
QE in the next downturn and achieve anything like the same outcomes. 
Although I would not represent myself as having a precise answer to this question, I will 
confess, like President Rosengren, I think it’s highly unlikely in the next downturn, whenever it 

is, that 10-year Treasury yields will fall by the 375 basis points that we observed between June 
’07 and June 2016 or even the 300 basis point decline we observed between January 2000 and 
2003. So regardless of past experience and past event studies, we have to be cognizant of, I 
think, these relevant constraints. 
Second, one of the reasons that bond yields fell during QE2 and QE3 is that breakeven 
inflation fell. That’s not a success. Although we can imagine scenarios in which we might get a 
big decline in bond yields, if that occurs because of deflation expectations, that’s not a win for 
us. So we need to be careful in thinking about this whole concept. Again, I think we’re going to 
probably need to have the full toolkit, and I wouldn’t be opposed, but we need to go into these 
discussions with a realistic assessment of what we can and can’t expect in the next downturn. 
For these and other reasons, I’m receptive to thinking about adding a tool to our toolkit in 
an ELB episode that will combine calendar-based guidance with a version of yield curve control, 
perhaps keeping the two-year Treasury yield below a certain ceiling. Those two could work well 
together, and, obviously, two-year Treasury security holdings roll off after two years, so you’re 
not stuck with them for 30 years like we are with mortgages. 
As the ELB does not appear to be imminent, we have time for additional staff work in the 
future to assess the pros and cons of such an approach, but I would urge that we do so even if we 
can’t converge to a conclusion by the end of this framework review. 
Finally, let me put in a good word for inflation threshold-based forward guidance as a 
viable tool and one that we should be willing to consider away from the effective lower bound. 
In a period when we may want to add accommodation away from the ELB, a substitute for 
cutting the funds rate would potentially be to commit to not raising the funds rate until core PCE 
inflation exceeded some threshold. 

Now, I remind you that the Greenspan Fed used a version of forward guidance in ’04 to 
’06. That was not an ELB period. So forward guidance in the toolkit away from the ELB is 
something that this Committee is familiar with, and we might at least, as we go forward, think 
about alternative tools in that context. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And, again, thanks to the staff for the work and 
very insightful memos. Regarding the use of forward guidance, I think it has proven to be a 
useful element of monetary policy, especially during our recent ELB event. The experience with 
past forward guidance should aid in making any future forward guidance more credible. 
But a fairly stark delineation between date-based and outcome-based forward guidance 
was presented in the memo—one that need not necessarily exist. For instance, we may jointly 
communicate both the desired state of the economy and the expected date when that state will be 
achieved. Doing so would give the public a better sense of timing while reducing the probability 
of communicating undue pessimism. 
But, in light of the Bank of England’s experience, the outcome-based conditions would 
need to be the controlling part of that guidance. For example, we might state that we will keep 
the funds rate at the ELB at least until the unemployment rate falls below some level, which we 
anticipate happening in the middle of, say, next year, but that the unemployment threshold will 
be the deciding feature governing funds rate policy. 
In formulating something like that, it is state based, and it requires being fairly certain 
that the state is attainable, and attainable in some reasonable amount of time. So, for example, 
one of the concerns I have is falling into a Japan-like trap of saying that we want, say, inflation 
to hit a certain target, and we just simply never get there. 

As always, there is no guarantee that statement language will be interpreted as intended. 
We know that. But communicating as much information as we are fairly confident in is 
desirable. A particular challenge discussed in the first memo is the possible confusion that the 
public could have between triggers that call for a review of accommodation with ones that 
trigger a return to a more normal reaction function. That, honestly, will probably always be a 
challenge for us, no matter where we are. 
With respect to our other main tool, asset purchases, I would align its use with that of 
forward guidance. Indeed, I believe it will often be advisable to use forward guidance and 
LSAPs in tandem, although I have somewhat less confidence in their potency than do the authors 
of the second memo. The point they make regarding consistency across our various tools is very 
well taken. If balance sheet policy works primarily through the quantity of assets purchased, 
then communicating how many assets we think we will purchase in order to hit the state-based 
goal would be useful. 
Now, we will never be certain if any pure quantity-based program will not need to be 
augmented with additional purchases, so I don’t regard being able to only communicate an 
expected amount of purchases as especially problematic. The amount of assets that will be 
eventually purchased will always depend on circumstances and, at best, be a forecast amount. 
Importantly, barring some severe market disruptions to a particular segment of financial 
markets, I would prefer we limit QEs to Treasury securities. Allocating credit to particular 
sectors will always be fraught with political risks and present a danger that our independence 
could be compromised. 
Lastly, QEs should be unwound as soon as economically feasible, and I do not share the 
view that the effective QEs and QTs are symmetric. Given that the tolerance for risk is state 

dependent, I would expect the effects on interest rates of unwinding the balance sheet to be much 
smaller than those associated with its expansion. 
In my view, we should attempt to limit our extraordinary tools to forward guidance and 
the balance sheet and only resort to negative interest in dire circumstances, such as actual 
deflation. Absent an actual deflation, I would prefer not employing negative rates. Even in that 
event, I would prefer coordinating a “helicopter drop” of money with the Treasury. I find 
negative interest rates generally unattractive. They risk damaging money markets and money 
funds and eroding the health of bank balance sheets. 
There is also a significant chance that negative rates would encourage a reach for yield, 
with financial firms taking on more balance sheet risks. They would be doing so in an economic 
environment in which they are more vulnerable and the potential harm could well outweigh any 
benefits coming through their intertemporal substitution channel by which negative rates work. I 
also believe that attempting yield curve control may be—and I emphasize “may be”—a step too 
far. It may be beyond our ability to do with any precision or without coordination with Treasury 
or both. There is only so much you can do with risk premiums. 
Additionally, capping long-term interest rates would involve different policies, depending 
on the economic environment. Sometimes it would require raising short-term rates as in the late 
1970s or lowering short-term rates as it did in the crisis. That aspect of the policy would make 
communications especially challenging, and there is too great a probability that we would fail to 
achieve our goals. As always, I would never say “never” to the use of any policy option, because 
of the fact that our toolkit must adapt to the circumstances we encounter. But yield curve control 
would clearly not be the first tool I would reach for in the case of a significant shock to the 
economy. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I, too, want to thank the System’s staff for 
the work they are doing on the Committee’s framework review and the memos that you wrote 
and presented for this meeting. With longer-term equilibrium interest rates likely to be lower 
than in past decades, there is a higher chance that the federal funds rate will be constrained by 
the effective lower bound and that nontraditional monetary policy tools are going to be used 
more often. 
During the Great Recession and its aftermath, we relied on forward guidance about the 
future path of interest rates and balance sheet policies to add policy accommodation. The staff 
reviewed several studies that evaluate the effectiveness of the tools, and their conclusion is fairly 
upbeat about the effectiveness of asset purchases. 
I also think that asset purchases had a positive effect. But I have a more measured view. 
Some of the studies the staff memo omits are less sanguine about the effect of balance sheet 
policies. And during the next recession, longer bond yields will likely start out at lower levels, 
as President Rosengren and Vice Chair Clarida, or I guess [Laughter] Governor Clarida for the 
purposes of this meeting, mentioned those started at lower levels, so there will be less policy 
space for asset purchases to work with. 
Now, the staff memo does point out that some of the concerns expressed at the time about 
asset purchases did not materialize—for example, there wasn’t an outbreak of inflation—but 
others did. There were concerns that growing the level of reserves would effectively undercut 
the federal funds market, which would preclude returning to a scarce reserve system, and, 
essentially, that’s what happened. There’s little trading in the funds rate market today, and it’s 
not likely to return. And this has created some complications for us—for example, the liquidity 

issues and interest rate spikes experienced in mid-September. It also opens up the question of 
what interest rate we should be using to communicate monetary policy. 
But regardless of these consequences, forward guidance and asset purchases are the tools 
we have, and I expect we will be using these tools again in the future. I think our past experience 
puts us in a better spot when we face the situation again. First, during the Great Recession 
episode, these were relatively new tools, and there was considerable “learning by doing” by the 
Committee over time as to how to formulate these tools and handle the communication 
challenges posed by each. And, second, although this isn’t really discussed in the memos, at the 
time not everyone on the Committee agreed that these tools should be used at all. There were 
concerns about the costs. And, at the start, there wasn’t clear understanding of the depth of the 
recession. So although there will always be the difficulty of determining when to invoke the 
tools and how much is needed, I do think that there will be less reluctance to use the tools when 
the situation arises again. 
First, some general comments. Both tools work through their effect on expectations, so 
they are dependent on the public understanding why the Committee is using the tools. This 
means clear communications is key, both in normal times away from the effective lower bound 
and when we are at the lower bound. 
If we want people to understand our forward guidance about the interest rate path, we 
need for them to understand that when we use it, we’ve entered a different mode, and we’re 
using guidance as a policy tool and not merely as a way of communicating. But this means they 
need to understand our policy-setting in normal times—in particular, the goals we are trying to 
achieve, how we use changes in the funds rate to influence inflation, economic activity in the 

labor market, and the key elements in our reaction function. And I think, Governor Clarida, that 
laying out our path to improving communications is going to be very helpful. 
But even with clear communications, the inference problem likely will always be an 
issue, regardless of the particular form the tools take. In particular, it’s very hard to 
communicate the message that we’re invoking nontraditional tools because the economy is slow 
and needs more accommodation, but taking these actions means that “The future will be bright, 
so you should spend more today.” Most people are going to stop at “The economy is slowing 
and needs more accommodation.” So they are going to hunker down, and they initially may 
spend less, not more. So while I think we should use both forward guidance and asset purchases, 
I think we should remain humble about the magnitude of the effects we can hope to achieve with 
these tools. The empirical evidence is not clear-cut, and the real world is more complicated than 
our models. 
Regarding the formulation of forward guidance about the future policy path, I think 
qualitative, date-based and outcome-based formulations all can work, so long as we 
communicate what we’re doing, why we’re doing it, and that we will be reviewing and extending 
the guidance as necessary depending on the evolution of the economy. My preference would be 
to combine outcome-based and date-based guidance. Outcome-based forward guidance links 
policy to the achievement of certain goals, which is desirable. 
Now, when choosing the outcome setting, some judgment needs to be applied. In the 
December 2012 outcome-based forward guidance, the 6½ percent unemployment rate threshold 
turned out not to be ambitious enough. But, remember, that’s partly because u* was changing as 
well. If structural changes to the economy are occurring in addition to cyclical changes, there’s 
going to be an element of art as well as science in choosing appropriate outcomes to put into 

your forward guidance. But I think, when the policy is first invoked, some of that could be 
explained. 
As to the role of date-based guidance, if people have different forecasts, they’re going to 
have different views of when the outcome specified in the forward guidance will be reached, and 
these differences of opinion can affect the effect of the forward guidance. Giving the public 
some indication of when the Committee thinks these outcomes will be achieved would be a 
useful way to coordinate expectations. Although some people might be able to infer the 
Committee’s view from the SEP forecasts, it would be desirable to include the consensus view 
about the timing in the forward guidance itself. 
Now, regarding balance sheet policies, the relative benefits and costs of flow-based 
versus fixed-size formulations depend on the communications that surround the program. The 
fixed-size program, coupled with an announcement that the Committee will extend the program 
if economic conditions warrant, is similar to a flow-based program that doesn’t give explicit 
conditions for adjusting the pace of flows. 
However, if the economy improved more rapidly than expected, it would likely be harder 
to wind down a fixed-size program early than it would be to slow the pace of purchases in a 
flow-based program. So this suggests that flow-based programs may be easier to implement and 
communicate, although I am somewhat skeptical that going a step further and specifying an 
appropriate rule tying the flow rate to forecasts of the output gap and inflation rate could be 
committed to. 
Regarding targeting interest rates further out on the maturity spectrum via asset 
purchases, the Committee had previously considered this as an alternative to longer-maturity 
asset purchases. The concern at the time was that the quantity of purchases needed to hit a 

particular interest rate cap was unknown. According to the staff memo, though, the Bank of 
Japan was eventually able to enforce its cap on 10-year bond yields simply by announcing that it 
was ready to buy unlimited quantities, and purchases were minimal. So if we do find ourselves 
needing to augment forward guidance about the funds rate path and longer-term asset purchases, 
then we might want to consider this type of policy, with careful thought about not only the entry 
into the program, but also the exit. 
I’m hesitant to use negative interest rate policies in the United States. The experience in 
Europe and Japan suggests they may have some beneficial effects on bank lending, and so far 
they have not had adverse effects on market functioning and financial stability. But their 
financial systems are considerably different from our own. 
We experienced unexpected volatility in overnight lending markets in September, which I 
think is a cautionary tale that we may not fully understand the interconnectedness of our markets. 
The market complexity in the United States makes me hesitant to want to try a negative interest 
rate. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will answer the questions in the order they 
were asked of us. I view all three types of forward guidance as being potentially helpful, and I 
agree with the literature review in the memo that, at times, forward guidance provided significant 
stimulus during the financial crisis. 
My own view is that forward guidance was most useful when it was paired with concrete 
balance sheet actions. I do not think there is a clear playbook for deciding the form of forward 
guidance, as the effectiveness is likely to be situational. The choice of forward guidance will 

likely depend on how forceful the policy needs to be, the distance between the Committee and 
market expectations for the policy path, and the ability to make guidance less conditional. 
Date-based guidance, particularly with few caveats, is effective in situations in which 
there is significant certainty about the need for action, and a premium is put on very clear 
communication. Although I view outcome-based guidance as useful while the economy 
recovered from the recession, it did seem harder to explain to the public, and that lack of clarity 
may have made it somewhat less effective. However, when the speed of recovery is uncertain 
and caveats may be necessary, outcome-based guidance is likely preferable to qualitative 
guidance. 
On question 2, the primary benefit of negative rates is that if the entire yield curve is at 
zero and there is little spread between rates on MBS and Treasury securities, it may be one of the 
few tools that remain for monetary policy unless we choose to ask the Congress to purchase 
riskier assets. The downsides are significant. First, in Japan and Europe, I do not view the effect 
as particularly beneficial. It appears that, particularly in Europe, there is a reevaluation of the 
effectiveness of negative interest rates at this time. 
Second, monetary policy is still transmitted through financial intermediaries. Negative 
rates can impede incentives to lend and, depending on how implemented, can severely impair the 
capital position of banks. And impairing the profitability and capital of banks can have the 
perverse effects of reducing credit availability and increasing loan interest rates, rather than 
stimulating lending—although tiering, of the kind done by the ECB, can lessen the negative 
effect on bank profitability. In view of the likely difficulty in the United States of subsidizing 
intermediaries affected by negative interest rates, this problem might be more severe in the 

United States than in other places, in which subsidies to the banking sector may be more 
politically palatable. 
Third, it is unclear how negative rates affect households’ and firms’ willingness to spend. 
Though it may encourage investment in risky assets, it is less clear how much spending by 
households and firms would be stimulated if we were to implement negative interest rates. For 
example, the increase in the household savings rate in the euro area over the most recent eight 
quarters could hint at the limited efficacy of negative interest rate policy when households need 
to build savings for retirement. 
Overall, I view this policy measure as one of the last tools that I would turn to—after 
virtually all alternatives have been exhausted. 
Question 3: I view the balance sheet policies as having been quite effective during the 
financial crisis. However, we started in an environment in which long-term Treasury and MBS 
rates were significantly higher than they are today. Given how depressed long rates are now, 
when the economy is at full employment and core inflation is near our inflation target, I am 
concerned that once we enter a recession there will be limited scope for pushing long-term rates 
even lower. 
We have already removed much of our buffer on short rates when the economy is beyond 
full employment, and the 10-year rate has traded well below 2 percent. It makes me skeptical of 
how much room will we have to maneuver in the next recession. 
Question 4: I view yield curve control likely to be quite effective and one of the ways to 
enforce forward guidance. Placing a ceiling on interest rates on shorter-term Treasury securities 
likely would result in better outcomes than forward guidance without the short-term yield 
control. Long-term yield curve control carries greater risks because it is not as connected to 

forward guidance and risks the potential to need to buy large quantities of long-term securities. 
However, either type of yield curve control has the same caveat as balance sheet policies. If both 
short- and long-term rates quickly reach zero, we may not have much room to maneuver. 
Like Governor Clarida, I think we should be spending more time considering what we 
would do if all Treasury interest rates are at zero. My own assessment is that this is highly likely 
in the next recession, and we need to plan more for this outcome. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. I appreciate the leadership of the Chair and Governor 
Clarida on this review and the great work by Ellen Meade, as well as the excellent papers that 
were presented today by Rebecca and Stefania. 
Just going back to why we’re doing this review: There are three key changes in the 
economy’s “new normal” that warrant this review. First, inflation is low. Underlying trend 
inflation is stuck below 2 percent. And there is a risk that inflation expectations have also 
slipped. 
Second, the sensitivity of price inflation to resource utilization is very low. That has the 
advantage of pulling more sidelined workers back into productive employment. But it has made 
it more difficult to achieve our 2 percent inflation objective on a sustained basis. 
And, third, the long-run equilibrium interest rate is very low, which means that the 
conventional policy buffer is now only half of the 450 to 500 basis points—or below half—that 
the FOMC has typically cut the federal funds rate to counter recessionary pressures in the past 
five decades. That large loss of policy space will tend to increase the frequency or length of 
periods when the policy rate is pinned at the lower bound. And, in turn, that experience of 
frequent or extended periods of being at the effective lower bound with inflation below target 

will erode private-sector inflation expectations, further compressing conventional policy space in 
a Japan-style downward spiral. 
This risk is compounded by potential spillovers from monetary policy in other major 
jurisdictions. The fact that the euro area and Japan are struggling with more extreme versions of 
this “unholy trinity” reinforces the case for strengthening our policy framework now. 
In order to avoid a Japan-style downward spiral, the new framework needs to accomplish 
two goals. We need to expand policy space to respond to adverse developments occurring when 
the policy rate is near the effective lower bound, and we need to move realized inflation up in 
order to re-anchor expectations and strengthen our buffer away from the effective lower bound. 
In order to bolster public confidence in our capacity and will to act as we approach the 
effective lower bound, which we are likely to do with greater frequency, we need to lay out 
clearly and convincingly in advance how we would intend to continue providing 
accommodation. The long-run statement should make clear the Committee will actively employ 
its full set of tools in responding to significant economic disturbances so that the effective lower 
bound is no impediment to providing accommodation. 
During my work on the international response to the financial crisis, I was struck by just 
how much of an impediment the effective lower bound proved to be. Monetary policy in all of 
the advanced economies lost potency at key inflection points when delays allowed doubt to take 
root. The delays necessitated by policymakers having to develop agreement and take action on 
quantitative purchases, for instance, once conventional policy was exhausted, sapped confidence 
and tightened financial conditions. It’s fair to conjecture that many in the euro area and 
elsewhere were out of work and for longer in part because of the lack of will or foresight to act 
decisively to deploy a richer set of tools. 

In the United States and elsewhere, asset purchases were effective in providing 
accommodation. However, quantitative approaches have proven to be lumpy to initiate and to 
calibrate over the course of the recovery. This creates discontinuities in the provision of 
accommodation that have been costly. Similarly, at the end of the program there can be, as we 
have seen, significant frictions associated with the normalization process. For these reasons, I 
tend to find QE suboptimal in many circumstances. 
That’s why I support developing an approach that smoothly expands the space for 
targeting interest rates or prices rather than quantities as an extension of our conventional policy 
space. 
Like those who have already spoken, I would be strongly disinclined to do so by moving 
rates into negative territory, because the additional space is limited and comes at the cost of 
considerable complexity and distortions. I view the cost–benefit calculation as unattractive in 
the U.S. context. 
Instead, as others have suggested, I would support capping rates moving from the short 
end toward the middle of the yield curve. Putting a ceiling on rates out toward the middle of the 
yield curve will transmit additional accommodation through the longer-term interest rates that 
are most relevant for household and business spending but would be smoother than outright 
purchases. The horizon on the yield curve caps would be designed to reinforce forward 
guidance. As described in one of the options in the 2010 memo to the FOMC as well as the 
memo provided for today’s discussion, because such yield curve ceilings are likely to be 
credible, this likely means less of a balance sheet commitment and provides for predictable and 
automatic roll-off. In that regard, I would be interested in seeing the staff undertake further work 
on what rate caps going out to the middle of the curve would require and deliver in practice. Of 

the options on the table, this is the one approach with promise that wasn’t actually undertaken in 
the crisis, and I worry that it won’t get as serious consideration unless we do the requisite 
analysis ahead of time. 
In addition, I believe that forward guidance conditioned on reaching our inflation target is 
a complementary and critical tool to boost the amount of accommodation at the effective lower 
bound. That, in part, would address what I saw as tremendous pressure to normalize or lift off 
prematurely at the end of 2015 and again in 2016, on the basis of historical relationships that 
were no longer in evidence. My inclination to stay the course until we achieve our target is 
given strong analytical underpinnings by recent research. Forward guidance that delays liftoff 
from the effective lower bound until 2 percent inflation has been achieved on a sustained basis—
say, over the course of the year—could improve performance on our dual-mandate goals, as 
shown by simulations undertaken by Bernanke, Kiley, and Roberts. 
Such forward guidance, along with rate ceilings out through the belly of the curve, are 
complementary and lend themselves to implementation in tandem, as suggested by Governor 
Clarida. To illustrate: As the federal funds rate approaches the effective lower bound, the 
Committee would commit to holding the funds rate at that level until inflation reaches 2 percent 
over the period of a year. The Committee would also state its assessment of how long this is 
likely to take. So, for instance, if the Committee’s assessment is that inflation is likely to reach 2 
percent in three years, it would commit to capping rates out the yield curve to three years. Of 
course, the Committee would continue to assess how long it will take to get inflation back to 2 
percent as the outlook evolves and adjust the yield curve commitment accordingly. 
One benefit of this approach is that the forward guidance and the ceilings on the short to 
middle segment of the yield curve would reinforce each other, and, once the desired outcome is 

achieved, any securities that were bought under the program would organically roll off, 
unwinding the policy smoothly and predictably. 
An approach along these lines could work well for most recessions. For very severe 
downturns, such as the financial crisis, this approach could be supplemented by purchases of 
longer-duration assets, in order to provide additional accommodation, if needed, at the long end 
of the yield curve if the rate caps at the front and middle segments of the yield curve aren’t 
transmitting sufficiently to the long end. Presumably, the requisite scale of such purchases, 
when combined with the forward guidance and medium-term yield curve ceilings, would be 
relatively smaller than if QE were used alone. 
The second challenge was the focus of our discussion in July. We may need to support 
inflation above 2 percent for some of the period when the economy is away from the effective 
lower bound in order to compensate for periods below 2 percent. That’s why we should clarify 
in the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy that we aim for inflation to 
average around 2 percent over time. That could mean targeting inflation in the range of 2 to 2½ 
percent over the next five years to make up for the past five years when inflation has been in the 
range of 1½ to 2 percent. 
We might also want to review that after we’ve had some experience at the top of the 
range. That is one of the few ways in which we would partially reclaim some of the lost 
conventional policy space associated with the decline in the real equilibrium rate and get at the 
issue that both President Rosengren and Governor Clarida were discussing of negative term 
premiums. 
And, finally, I hope we will have an opportunity to discuss the place of financial stability 
in our monetary policy framework. The last time we discussed this issue was in April 2016. The 

changes to monetary policy we’re contemplating suggest that a low-for-long environment will be 
a feature, not a bug, of the new normal, and we should talk about how that implicates how 
financial stability and monetary policy interact. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to thank the staff for an excellent set of 
memos summarizing what we’ve learned about the effectiveness of the various nonconventional 
tools we have available to help us execute monetary policy. The memos were very useful in 
helping us think about when a particular tool would work well and when it wouldn’t. I can see 
most of these tools fitting into the outcome-based policy strategy we’ve talked about before. 
I don’t believe there should be a preset playbook. The best choice of a tool or a 
combination of tools is going to depend on the circumstances the Committee finds itself in. One 
major theme of outcome-based monetary policy is that clearly communicating the relationship 
between the setting of a tool and the achievement of our policy goals will enhance the 
effectiveness of whatever tool we choose. 
For example, think about the “Delphic problem” in forward guidance—that is, the public 
may interpret the introduction of guidance about a more accommodative rate path as a sign that 
economic conditions are worse than they thought. In turn, these more pessimistic views can 
contribute to yet worse growth or inflation outcomes. Other than live streaming an FOMC 
meeting , we can’t do much about the public thinking we know more than they do, although— 
MR. QUARLES. That would do it. 
MR. EVANS. —that might disabuse them. [Laughter] Governor Quarles once again 
beats me to the punch line. But we can help our cause by communicating that even though 
we’ve experienced a negative shock, the new policy path that we are taking is expressly designed 

to counter that shock and achieve our dual-mandate goals as expeditiously as possible. More 
generally, we can guard against overly pessimistic private-sector expectations by making it clear 
we will do what it takes to achieve our goals within a reasonable amount of time. 
Let me now turn to the specific options discussed in the memos. My outcome-based 
orientation makes me somewhat predisposed to forward guidance and flow-based asset 
purchases that are linked to the achievement of economic outcomes. But I recognize there could 
be times when date-based forward guidance may be the best way to push down expectations for 
the policy path. 
Likewise, with balance sheet policies, there may be times when a large, fixed-size asset 
purchase program would provide a bigger jolt to long-term rates than an open-ended outcome-
linked program. Maybe. It could happen. So I would not want to establish a particular 
hierarchy for the various types of forward guidance or balance sheet policy. Circumstances will 
determine the best course. But with whatever we choose to do, it will be key to communicate 
that the end goal of the action is to achieve our dual-mandate objective sooner rather than later. 
The memos also covered a couple of tools we haven’t tried: negative interest rates and 
yield curve control. I don’t think they’re getting a lot of positive play today yet, but it’s still 
early. Although I’m not ready to rule them out, I do remain skeptical. There are a lot of 
unknowns about how negative rates might function in the United States. Our financial markets 
are different from the countries that have used them, and the scope for negative rates is clearly 
limited. 
Unless we radically change institutions, it seems unlikely that we could take rates 
negative enough to fill meaningful shortfalls in policy accommodation. I think, according to 

some measures of the Taylor rule, back in 2009 we should have been at about minus 4 percent 
for the funds rate. That would be hard to achieve. 
I also think yield curve control is fraught with difficulties. Nominal interest rates reflect 
expectations of real rates and inflation, as well as term premiums. A policy that is expected to 
boost real GDP growth and inflation would normally produce higher long-term market interest 
rates almost immediately. This makes it difficult for me to see how we would calculate the 
appropriate rate ceilings or decide when they should be removed. And communicating these 
decisions clearly would be quite challenging. 
As to the allure of the yield curve control as a way to lower long-term rates without 
requiring large increases in the balance sheet, well, I’m unconvinced. As the memos point out, 
to effectively control rates, we may end up purchasing a very large quantity of Treasury 
securities. If you didn’t like LSAPs before, you’re going to hate them in that mass purchase 
situation. There is no risk-free lunch here. 
That said, I am more open to versions of yield curve control that are aimed at managing 
shorter maturity rates in order to complement forward guidance, along the lines Governor 
Brainard was discussing. I’m open to them. I’m not convinced. I would like to hear more about 
their pros and cons. 
Now, an expectation has been mentioned that perhaps, during the next downturn at the 
ELB, long rates might be at zero. That is a shocking expectation, in my opinion, and, although 
we can look at different monetary policies, I think I wrote down, “Hello! Fiscal policy!” It 
almost seems like it would be incumbent upon the Fed Chair and pretty much everybody to stand 
up and say, “There must be fiscal policies that can help do this,” because it is very cheap to do a 

whole bunch of things if we actually had long-term rates at zero, unless there’s something else 
really weird going on that circumstances might be dictating. 
In sum, I think the various forms of forward guidance and balance sheet policies covered 
in the memos give us a good set of tools to supplement conventional policy when needed. 
Deciding when to use them will depend on circumstances, but, in all cases, monetary policy will 
be more effective if we clearly communicate how the particular tactical approach we choose will 
move us toward our mandated policy goals as expeditiously as possible. 
Now, Governor Clarida mentioned developments soon to come in terms of the long-run 
statement and the discussion that the communications committee has been having. I just want to 
mention that discussions like this, well, historically—and I would expect in the future, too—take 
a lot of time, and, actually, quite a number of discussions in the past have been required in order 
to do the relatively minor changes that we’ve already contemplated. 
I would suggest that serious consideration be given to reserving additional time, maybe 
by video conferences in the run-up to meetings to come up with the first long-run statement 
when there wasn’t really enough time in FOMC meetings. An intermeeting videoconference to 
kick around some of the ideas. I think it’s quite ambitious to expect that this can be done by the 
first half of next year unless there are simpler details that I’m not quite contemplating myself. 
I think agreeing on language changes and discussing concepts are time consuming. For 
example, the concept that I think we’d benefit from and we need to talk about is inflation 
symmetry and what we mean by “symmetry.” We touched on this a little bit with average 
inflation targeting and different versions, but I think a very full discussion of what we might 
mean and what everybody can embrace—I think that’s the hard part, what everybody can 
embrace. 

I’m trying to remember what candidate phrasings were offered before the Committee 
decided on the balanced-approach language, because there was an alternative that Governor 
Tarullo and I worked on that was much more expansive and I think probably encompasses things 
like “more symmetric inflation.” And so I’d ask my staff to go unearth that language. I don’t 
know where it is, but, at any rate, things like that would be helpful. Thanks very much. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thanks to the staff for putting together a set 
of memos that help frame the issues associated with the use of forward guidance, balance sheet 
policy, and other tools in the execution of monetary policy. 
My first reaction is that we should definitely keep the nonstandard tools employed in the 
aftermath of the Great Recession in our toolkit. Central banks have encountered circumstances 
in which the use of all three types of forward guidance and various strategies regarding balance 
sheet policy were deemed appropriate, given the prevailing context, and they have been 
effective. 
I think this highlights an important point: Context clearly matters. In thinking about 
when a particular tool might be used, the right answer will be heavily dependent on the details of 
the challenge that might prompt the consideration of using such tools. And this is not to suggest 
that there are not issues associated with the implementation of any of them. Communication and 
commitment will certainly need to be addressed, but these are distinct issues from whether we 
should consider using these tools at all. And on this latter question, I think the answer is a 
clear “yes.” 
I think the staff’s statement on slide 13 of the handout today has it exactly right. It is 
valuable for the FOMC to have a variety of balance sheet policy options and employ the ones 

that best fit the economic situation that it faces. This, to my mind, includes which assets to 
purchase, and I would extend the sentiment to forward guidance as well. 
I have no appetite for actively exploring negative interest rate policy today. I don’t feel 
this is something that we should be promoting publicly as a possibility. It consistently sparks 
much consternation among households, business leaders, and bankers, and I think that going this 
way would adversely affect sentiment in significant ways that would be difficult to manage. And 
I also doubt that it would work as expected. 
I have a similar view regarding yield curve control. I think it is quite probable that yield 
curve control would require a very large expansion of the balance sheet, especially in the early 
phases when markets will almost certainly test our resolve. That’s certainly a lesson that I take 
from the Bank of Japan’s experience. And though I’m probably less concerned about balance 
sheet size than some others, I don’t think it is productive to send signals that we would be willing 
to cede control of the balance sheet to engineer interest rate levels that are mostly not in our 
direct control. 
In fact, even if we were successful in maintaining relatively tight control of rates along 
the yield curve, I am not sure that would be a great idea. Removing a large portion of the 
market’s signal on interest rates risks losing important information about the state of the 
economy as transmitted through financial markets. That, to me, would be a substantial cost, as 
we have a lot of experience and lean heavily on using those signals to appropriately calibrate 
policy. 
I’d be somewhat more sympathetic to the approaches that might mitigate some of my 
concerns: ceilings on short-dated rates that are set somewhat above the announced policy path of 

rates. But as the staff memo points out, it is far from clear that this would add much to the policy 
mix. So I share President Evans’s views on the mix of these issues. 
Finally, with respect to both negative interest rate policy and yield curve control, I 
suppose “never say never” is the correct response. But I prefer a message that makes it clear that 
these policy approaches are not on the table now. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to the staff for the memos and 
framing this discussion. So I’m going to first comment on the tools, and then I am going to 
come back to recommend maybe a complementary approach that I think would help—at least 
would help me—think this through. And I’m going to truncate my remarks on the tools, because 
I think the comments so far pretty much capture them. 
On forward guidance, whether it’s qualitative, date based, or outcome based, I don’t need 
to repeat some of the comments that have already been made, but I agree with most of what has 
been said by Evans, Clarida, Mester, Rosengren, Bostic, and others who have just spoken. I 
think the key is that these tools depend on the situation, and the communication needs to be 
tailored to explain the overall FOMC strategy, and they need to be in the context of a narrative 
about our diagnosis of the situation and our FOMC strategy. But I’ll leave it at that. 
On negative interest rates, I agree with many others. It is not clear to me that the benefits 
outweigh the costs, and I am very concerned about the adverse effect on financial intermediaries, 
and I am always reminded about the structure of the U.S. economy, particularly with the very 
large money market industry and the very large reliance of our companies on commercial paper 
issuance, which in turn relies very heavily on the money market fund industry. 

I’m very doubtful, to the point that if we find ourselves approaching the zero lower 
bound, I might be advocating in that situation that the FOMC signal that it will not go below 
zero, and that we’ll use forward guidance and balance sheet policies. But there are going to need 
to be other policy steps, away from monetary policy, to address this issue—that is, fiscal policy. 
But we’ll come back to that. 
On balance sheet policies, I don’t have anything brilliant to add, other than—I think a 
number of people have already said—whether it’s month-based, flow-based, or fixed size, the 
key to me is, it has to be tailored to the situation—I’ll come back to that—and in the context of 
the narrative. 
On yield curve control—last comment—I would be very hesitant, maybe other than as a 
last resort, to “double down” on QE. It’s possible, as others have said, that I would be receptive 
to doing something on short rates, but this approach would concern me. 
So that leads me to where to go from here, and I think my main take from this exercise 
and doing this exercise with my team is, not only are we going to have to be open minded about 
tools, but I think it’s very important that we are not wedded to a specific set of tools. As a 
number have alluded, you don’t want to be in a position of fighting the last war. And I think my 
guess is, we are going to have to innovate tools we may not have even mentioned today, and I’ll 
give an example in a moment. 
My own view—I’m not smart enough to know, but my guess right now is, as we all said, 
the next downturn is not going to look like the previous downturn. I don’t think it’s going to be 
a financial crisis. It is going to be driven, in my view, most likely by nonfinancial corporates 
and, in particular, by a gapping out of credit spreads and a severe tightening of financial 
conditions. In this context, the banks may well fare reasonably well, but the gapping out of 

credit spreads will cause a slowing of the economy. In this scenario, low Treasury rates will get 
super low, and the problem will be credit spreads for everybody else. 
Now, the good news is vulture funds are already forming and stand ready to swoop in and 
are doing a lot of work to get ready for this. So they’ll buy a number of these credits, but the 
equilibrium level of credit spreads is going to be much wider than it is today, in my view. It’s 
not that it will be unstable. It’ll just be wider. 
In this scenario, ironically, housing may be okay, because long-term Treasury and 
mortgage-backed securities rates may be very low. In this scenario, what is the role of QE? It’s 
not clear to me. Is it even appropriate to be buying securities out along the curve? I might be 
strongly against that, because I’m not sure whether that will help if Treasury rates are already 
super low. 
I am certain—it may be ill advised—we will be under a lot of pressure and be having a 
strong debate about whether we should buy infrastructure bonds, corporates, or other securities 
for which there has been a widening, and I think we are going to need to probably push that to 
the Treasury, but we need to have that debate. 
The point of it is, I don’t know, but I do think we should be having a tabletop—or several 
tabletop exercises now or in the near future that go through this scenario and other scenarios and 
then brainstorm about what tools would we use in that scenario. And also get ourselves 
emotionally more ready to deal with the pressures we’re likely to be under. 
So while the tools-based approach, I think, is essential, and I think you’ve done it very 
well, I am not sure how helpful it’s going to be getting us ready for the next downturn. I think a 
scenario-based approach to monetary policy, analogous to what we’ve done on financial 
stability, is in order and I think would serve us well. And I think we’ll learn a lot from it, and it 

may actually change our views and change this discussion about tools. And so I hope we will do 
something like that. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Before I address the questions, I want to 
acknowledge that, as we dig into these various tools and approaches, I frankly find myself pretty 
torn. I’m inherently skeptical of the effectiveness of many of the newer approaches that we’ve 
been discussing. I see high risk of unforeseen negative consequences. I worry that we will try to 
respond to even garden-variety recessions with industrial-strength tools. I worry that we will 
spend all of our ammunition without the effect we want. 
But I deeply respect the role that the FOMC played in bringing the U.S. economy out of 
the previous downturn. I believe a critical part of that success was the Committee’s portfolio of 
approaches. Across qualitative, date-based, or outcome-based forward guidance; QE1, 2, or 3; or 
Operation Twist, the Committee gave participants in the economy confidence there was always 
ammunition in reserve. 
I believe that confidence supported investment and inflation expectations. So, even 
though I lack confidence in many of these approaches, I believe one of the objectives of our 
work on the monetary policy framework should be to communicate the fact that we have a 
portfolio of them partly, as many have said, to have “horses for courses”—unique circumstances 
needing tailored efforts—but partly to maintain confidence that we always have ammunition in 
reserve. That said, while projecting confidence, I think we should be measured and should 
husband these approaches to use them when they are most needed. The biggest punch the extra 
tools pack may come from people seeing that we have them on the shelf. 

Now, turning to the questions, my views on forward guidance match my views given in 
previous meetings on makeup strategies. We should not pretend to commit to things unless we 
want to follow through on them. For me, forward guidance is mainly a tool for communicating 
about policy at the lower bound, as opposed to a tool for commitment. 
At the lower bound, there is less history available in our reaction function, so it makes 
sense for us to talk explicitly about the conditions, time, or state under which we expect to lift 
off. I interpret the 2008–15 experience as revealing that date-based forward guidance is to be 
preferred to qualitative, and outcome-based forward guidance is even better. However, as many 
have said, there may be circumstances when qualitative or date-based forward guidance is all we 
can honestly communicate. 
On negative nominal interest rates, it is true that central banks that have tried them have 
not experienced disastrous consequences. However, it is also true that central banks that have 
tried them still have them. [Laughter] If I can make an outcome-based argument, I lean toward 
not going there without seeing clear evidence of the longer-term effect on these countries. I see 
balance sheet policy as being secondary to forward guidance. We used balance sheet policy, it 
didn’t cause major problems, and some research suggests that there were benefits. Like 
President Mester, I am a bit skeptical that the benefits are as sizable as what research would 
suggest. That said, I agree we could move faster next time, that moving would be a positive 
signal, and we could better counter the concerns that we wouldn’t shrink the balance sheet later. 
Flow-based policies are more flexible than fixed size, and that’s appealing. However, to 
the extent that we are concerned about the eventual size of the balance sheet, unrestricted flow-
based policies don’t appear to be credible. 

Yield curve control would complement forward guidance on short-term rates, putting our 
money where our mouth is. Although I’m open to learning more, I’m not yet convinced that the 
added control is worth the potential balance sheet volatility. 
And, as for yield curve control with longer-term rates: That genie went into the bottle 
with the Treasury-Fed Accord, and I don’t think we should let it out again. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the staff’s work on these 
background memos as we continue the review of our monetary policy framework. With 
shrinking policy space, now is a very good time to talk about issues relating to the use of forward 
guidance and asset purchases. 
Anticipating how to use the different types of tools to address different economic 
circumstances is challenging, though. We’ll have to be flexible in thinking about their 
application. But I liked a suggestion made by President Mester at our September meeting when 
she talked about road-testing our models and assumptions about these nonstandard tools under 
various economic scenarios. This type of simulation in the form of a tabletop exercise, which 
President Kaplan just talked about, might help to estimate how these tools would work when we 
are confronted with real-world policy choices. 
Considering the merits of the three types of forward guidance described in the memos, 
research by my own staff suggests that more accommodative forward guidance does ease 
financial conditions and leads to a modest improvement in economic activity and inflation. 
Their work finds that our experience with qualitative and date-based guidance has generally been 
more effective than our abbreviated use of outcome-based guidance. With outcome-based 

guidance, I recall some confusion about the issue of thresholds versus triggers, a reminder of the 
possible communication challenges when using this form of guidance. 
With regard to negative interest rates, I see little evidence that the benefits outweigh their 
cost. The international cases suggest that negative interest rates ease some measures of financial 
conditions. But the memos highlight the point that these policies may not produce positive 
outcomes for the banking sector or real economy. Recent work by my staff suggests that 
negative interest rates may actually be contractionary and, hence, counterproductive for 
policymakers. 
Regarding balance sheet policy, our experiences with this unconventional policy tool do 
give us some perspective for judging its potential usefulness at the effective lower bound. As the 
staff memo notes, our understanding of the nature of cost and benefits has advanced over the 
decades since these balance sheet tools were deployed, but, of course, our understanding is not 
complete. 
For example, given that balance sheet policies put downward pressure on longer-term 
rates, one would expect increased borrowing by households and businesses. These policies 
likely contributed to an increase in mortgage and auto borrowing by households for sure, but 
business fixed investment in this recovery has remained consistently weaker than in previous 
expansions, particularly when compared against the pace of employment growth. It’s also worth 
considering whether asset purchases would be as effective today with longer-term interest rates 
already near their historical lows. 
Although the staff’s analysis points to the benefits of previous balance sheet policy 
actions, the memo is silent on whether the reduction in the balance sheet in 2018 and 2019 had a 
similar effect in the opposite direction. Further analysis about the expected effect of a reduction 

in the balance sheet on financial markets and real activity would add to our understanding of the 
use and efficacy of balance sheet policies. 
Finally, the memo discusses the possibility of expanding our balance sheet policies to 
include yield curve control. I’m open to further consideration of this tool, especially around 
short-term rates, but I’m mindful of our historical experience with caps on longer-term bond 
yields. The Treasury–Federal Reserve Accord of 1951 gave the FOMC to ability to exercise its 
independence and pursue its congressional mandates. Our economy and financial system looked 
quite different than in the ’50s, but we should be careful in entertaining yield curve control, 
especially in explaining it to the public, in that it could open the door to an erosion of our central 
bank independence. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. I’m going to suggest that we take a short—let’s call it 
15-minute—break, and resume at a quarter of 11:00, sharp. 
[Coffee break] 
CHAIR POWELL. Welcome back, everyone. Governor Bowman, please. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I first want to thank the staff for their insightful 
memos on forward-guidance and balance sheet policies and for the helpful conversations we had 
in the lead-up to this meeting. The overview of our previous experiences with these tools while 
at the effective lower bound were particularly helpful for me. The memos reinforce my view 
that forward guidance is an effective and important component of our policy toolkit. Date-based 
forward guidance seems to be preferable in most situations because it’s easy to communicate and 
it’s more likely to be well understood by market participants. And from my previous experience 
in banking, I know that clear guidance on the direction of policy provides an expectation of 

stability that’s beneficial to long-term planning of businesses, consumers, and other economic 
decisionmakers. 
Outcome-based policies pose challenges in terms of transparency, credibility, and ease in 
communication. To implement explicit forward guidance, either date based or outcome based, it 
will be important to build a clearly defined escape clause so we maintain credibility without 
sacrificing our flexibility. But, whatever approach we decide to take with forward guidance, our 
communications need to be crafted carefully to avoid confusion or misinterpretation. 
I’d note that we also use forward guidance in periods of normal policy away from the 
lower bound on interest rates, and the same communications challenges arise in normal times as 
at the lower bound. We should look for ways to communicate forward guidance clearly and 
effectively in all scenarios. For this reason, I’d like to recommend that the staff examine the 
effectiveness of our forward guidance in periods outside the time when we were at the lower 
bound on interest rates. 
Regarding balance sheet policies, it’s clear to me that these need to stay in our toolkit, 
given the low interest rate environment. But I think we need to think carefully about how the 
effects might be different in different circumstances and in the current environment of ample 
reserves. And in communicating our long-run policy framework, I think we want to be clear that 
long-run asset purchases are not the preferred means to provide policy accommodation and 
would only be used in cases in which our other tools prove to be insufficient to meet our goals. 
We also need to keep in mind that another large expansion in the size of our balance sheet could 
potentially become a bone of contention as it did in the previous episode of quantitative easing. 
And, finally, I see no benefits to negative interest rates and high potential costs. Negative 
interest rates would provide a very unhealthy economic growth environment and would suggest 

to markets that we have no other options, which could seriously undermine our credibility, 
especially with the public, including bank depositors. If the situation arises in which we feel we 
have little remaining room to provide policy accommodation, then we would be much better 
served by acknowledging the limits of monetary policy and possibly leveraging our relationships 
in other parts of the government to encourage additional fiscal policy support, as Presidents 
Evans and Kaplan noted earlier. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thanks to the staff for the thought-
provoking memos. And, as I said in previous meetings, I think that this discussion of our toolkit 
needs to be as robust and thorough as our discussion of alternative frameworks for a few reasons. 
One, in the circumstances that we’re living in, I think any change in the framework such as a nod 
toward average inflation targeting is unlikely to keep us off the effective lower bound 
indefinitely. We’re likely to find ourselves having to adopt unconventional policies again. So 
we need to think through how it is that they would work and what they might be likely to be. 
And, two, some of the problems that, again, something like average inflation targeting 
would be seeking to address, such as an ELB-induced downward drift in inflation expectations, 
could also be eased with a more public discussion of the effectiveness of our unconventional 
toolkit. I think that, come the next time that we need to use them, we’ll be in a better position if 
we can moderate the notion that the ELB is a hard constraint on monetary policy. 
In that regard, on balance sheet policies—part of the toolkit that we have used before—I 
was encouraged by the emerging consensus that QE was an effective tool. We don’t always hear 
that in the circles that I run in. Before reading the memo, I had believed that the consensus was 
also that QE3 was less effective than earlier actions. So I was surprised that recent studies 

suggest that that may not have been the case, and that there may not have been a diminishing 
return on balance sheet policies. I don’t know that I’m 100 percent persuaded, but I think that 
that is worth more discussion and more public discussion—again, for the reasons that I think we 
will be in a better position if the public doesn’t believe that the effective lower bound means that 
Earth is getting hit by an asteroid. 
In regard to the discussion of the tools we have not used, I was less skeptical than a 
number of folks around the table have been in yield curve control. If the ultimate goal of balance 
sheet policies is to influence longer-term rates, it seems logical, as Mr. Spock would say, to 
target those rates directly rather than feel our way toward our ultimate policy objective with 
quantity targets. 
So I’d be interested in, again, additional assessment—additional work on how effective 
such a tool might be and additional work on an assessment of the implications for the size of the 
balance sheet. Again, contrary to some of the concerns that have been raised, it seems likely to 
me that an interest rate target could match the effectiveness of a quantity purchase program but 
with a smaller effect on the size of the balance sheet, as Governor Brainard discussed, if the 
target was believed to be credible. 
One thing that was mentioned in the memo is that a particularly tricky issue with yield 
curve control policies is exit. Once the market starts to perceive that the price target could fall, 
there could be substantial selling. Japan, presumably, is a useful example for learning about 
exit—or, perhaps, about the inability to exit. So, since exit seems so thorny, that’s obviously 
something that, if we were to think further about such policies, we should focus on thinking 
about the possible exit strategies in advance. In that regard, I would think that a useful analogy 
might be with exchange rate pegs. And while people haven’t thought a lot about that—it hasn’t 

been a hot topic recently, but there has been a lot of thinking about exchange rate pegs, how you 
enter them and how you exit them. And that would be a useful analogy. 
The memo also discusses the use of balance sheet policies to affect lending to firms and 
households if not directly, at least a little less indirectly than we do now. And I thought 
President Kaplan’s intervention was extremely interesting, right up until the point of getting into 
infrastructure bonds, at which point President Evans said he thought he was going to have to 
bring out a defibrillator. [Laughter] 
MR. EVANS. Not for myself. [Laughter] 
MR. QUARLES. But as part of the family that brought skiing to the Rocky Mountains in 
the ’30s and ’40s, I know something about slippery slopes [laughter], and I think the risks of 
getting involved in credit allocation are just too high. Once you offer incentives for one type of 
lending, it will only be a matter of time before there is irresistible political demand for an ever 
more ambitious variety of ever more targeted programs. 
Let me just end with a comment on negative rates. I agree with everything that everyone 
has said about negative rates probably not being a good idea for anyone and certainly not a good 
idea in the United States at the current conjunction. I do think the one interesting point about the 
argument for negative rates—and particularly about how they don’t have a negative effect on the 
financial sector, which is the transmission mechanism for everything—is that while they do 
reduce net interest income, they also improve the quality of the portfolio. The banks are not 
losing as much on their portfolio, so it’s a net “wash” or a net positive for the financial sector 
while being a benefit for the rest of the economy. 
And that may be true if negative rates are a relatively temporary policy. But what we’re 
seeing now—particularly in Europe, where you’re expecting to be in a negative rate environment 

for an extended, perhaps an indefinite period of time—is that the portfolio that was underwritten 
in one environment will benefit if you now have negative rates. But once you’ve gone through 
all of that, and you’re now expecting to underwrite a portfolio in a particular interest rate 
environment that’s going to obtain forever, that benefit will be lost, because it will have been 
underwritten expecting the rates that obtain at the time. So now all you will have is the effect on 
that interest income, which will be very negative for the financial sector. This is why I think that 
banks, which had been grumbling—but only grumbling in Europe in this environment 
beforehand—now, as they see it going on for as far as the eye can see, are really beginning to 
scream that this just doesn’t work. So thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also want to thank the staff for their work on 
these memos. Due to the secular decline in the neutral real interest rate, the effective lower 
bound has become our nemesis when combatting economic downturns. We now face the reality 
that we may be driven to the ELB every time we go into recession. As a result, we will likely 
resort to using so-called unconventional monetary policies. Therefore, it’s appropriate for us to 
review these policies before having to use them again. 
Let me just give a comment about my view. My view would be that ideal monetary 
policy would be that the Committee would be able to communicate a state-contingent policy rule 
in normal times that would delineate Committee actions in all states of the world. In some ways, 
that kind of guidance would be perfect forward guidance. You’d be telling the private sector 
exactly what you’re going to do in every state of the world. There are models that have this kind 
of thing, and it works perfectly inside the model. Obviously, that’s a lot different from reality, 
but that would be kind of the Holy Grail. 

This Committee has never been able to come to an agreement on writing down such a 
state-contingent monetary policy rule, and there’s just too much disagreement over both theory 
and practical aspects, I think, to get to that. But now we have a more difficult assignment, which 
is that not only do you, ideally, have to write down the monetary policy rule in normal times, but 
also announce to markets what you would do in situations in which you encounter the effective 
lower bound. So you want a state-contingent policy rule that says we are going to do such and 
such in normal times, and we’re going to do such and such when we encounter the effective 
lower bounds. 
We’ve kind of got the same problem, squared. The rule should also now say how the 
effective lower bound will be confronted, and this will affect private-sector behavior away from 
the effective lower bound. And, actually, if we could do it effectively, it might help us stay away 
from the effective lower bound. So I think that all of that is very promising, but the fact that we 
haven’t been able to do it for the normal-times case suggests that it will be all that much harder 
to do this for the effective-lower-bound case as well. 
Of the four policies discussed in the memos, we have used two of them in the past: 
forward guidance and balance sheet policy. Thus, we have a better understanding of these 
policies and their effect on the economy by itself. This suggests that these are the most realistic 
options at the effective lower bound and the most widely expected in the private sector as of 
today. The other two, negative nominal interest rates and yield curve control, would be new 
tools, post-Accord, for this Committee, although they have been used by other central banks. As 
a result, I, like others, view these as last resort policies, not something that we would adopt soon 
after hitting the effective lower bound, if at all. 

My comments will focus on each of these four policy tools. First, regarding forward 
guidance, I have long worried that, by itself, this policy tool may have little effect, because it 
lacks credibility. Promises to maintain the policy rate at a suboptimally low level into the future 
are unlikely to be acted on by the private sector, since it is difficult to commit future incarnations 
of the FOMC to enact the promised policy at the appropriate time in the future. As a result, the 
promises may not be credible at the time they are made—and, therefore, nothing happens. That 
is, you don’t get any response from the private sector to the announcement of the forward-
guidance policy. 
My interpretation of world events over the past decade is that the prospect of forward-
guidance policies falling flat is a very real possibility. One case that’s famous, when it worked, 
was Mario Draghi saying “whatever it takes” at a speech in London. Another case in which, 
famously, it didn’t work is the BOJ’s announcement of a 2 percent inflation target—and their 
saying they’ll do “whatever it takes.” That’s an example of one that did not change expectations 
and fell flat. 
One could say that there is no harm in using forward guidance, as it either works or it 
falls flat. But forward guidance also suffers from being misinterpreted as signaling that we 
expect the economy to perform badly in the future, and also that we cannot do anything about it. 
This has a serious cost to our credibility and is, therefore, a mitigating factor in wanting to use 
forward guidance at all. So the bottom line on forward guidance, at least by itself, is that we 
should use it sparingly and very carefully. And I would just remind the Committee that forward-
guidance announcements are what I would call “pure expectations plays.” You’re trying to get 
the private sector to, suddenly, shift its expectations. If they don’t shift, then nothing happens at 
all, and you’ve lost credibility. Despite my concerns about the effectiveness of forward 

guidance, should we adopt it I favor outcome-based forward guidance to date-based forward 
guidance, since it conditions policy on the state of the economy as opposed to an arbitrary date. 
Let me move to negative nominal rates. Second, like many others around the table, I am 
pessimistic about the use of negative nominal interest rate policy in the United States. The 
evidence that we have seen on its use in Japan and Europe does not give me much hope that 
there will be a stimulative policy here. On that, I think negative interest rate policy (NIRP) has 
more cost than benefits for the United States. 
Third, balance sheet policies that we employed in the past appear to have worked well. 
The reaction in financial markets clearly indicates that such policies are effective in easing 
financial conditions and are consistent with “easier monetary policy,” such as higher inflation 
expectations, currency depreciation, higher equity valuations, and lower real interest rates. And I 
might remark that all of those effects occurred in outsized magnitudes across Europe, Japan, and 
the United States when QE was used. All of these effects have been associated with quantitative 
easing in the United States. We’ve also demonstrated that we can unwind our balance sheet once 
it is appropriate to do so. 
I have long argued for adopting state-contingent balance sheet policy that can be adjusted 
up or down, depending on the state of the economy. This is referred to as flow-based balance 
sheet policy in the memo. I believe that our guiding principle should be that we tried to use 
balance sheet policy at the effective lower bound in the same way that we use the policy rate 
away from the effective lower bound. As a result, state-contingent balance sheet policy is my 
preferred policy course. I also believe that state-contingent balance sheet policy will likely be 
our first response in the event that the policy rate hits the effective lower bound. I might 
parenthetically add that I’m also an advocate of trying to create policy space for use of this tool 

because I think it will be the one that we have to use if we encounter the effective lower bound 
again. 
Finally, regarding yield curve control, while I’m open to further study, I’m dubious about 
the desirability of maintaining interest rate ceilings across the entire yield curve. As the memos 
point out, by adopting this policy in an unrestricted fashion, we may not be able to control the 
size of our balance sheet. The experience of the 1940s seems to bear this out. At times, the 
Federal Reserve had to purchase the entire stock in order for certain maturities’ yields to be 
maintained at the interest rate ceiling. 
My bigger concern with this policy, as others have mentioned, is that it effectively 
undoes the 1951 Treasury–Federal Reserve Accord and puts us at the center of the federal debt 
management process—if not literally, at least “optically.” The Accord has served us well for 
nearly 70 years. I see no reason why we would voluntarily undo it if other policy tools are 
available. 
And I agree with President Evans on the difficult aspects of changing the January 
statement. The January statement was viewed, when it was first adopted, as quasi-constitutional 
in nature, so it requires a lot of agreement to change it, much like the U.S. Constitution. It can be 
changed. There are certainly things that we may be able to achieve to get to a better document, 
but the previous effort used up a lot of time and was done with great care. So I think it may be 
more difficult than may be currently appreciated as to how hard it is to get language that 
everyone can agree on in a new document. So I would certainly advise that we have special 
meetings to get a sense of the Committee on possible language changes for the January 
statement—which, I guess, will no longer be a January statement but a consensus statement. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. As with others around the table, I support the 
form of forward guidance that conditions call for. In general, I prefer outcome-based forward 
guidance because I think it is the most clear and credible form of communicating our expected 
path of policy. I think qualitative and date-based guidance run the risk of miscommunicating a 
pessimistic outlook, but I can see scenarios in which they could make sense. 
Just a quick reminder—what I have been advocating is outcome-based guidance, saying 
that the Committee will not raise the federal funds rate until we achieve our core inflation target 
of 2 percent on a sustained basis. That doesn’t prevent us from cutting rates further, and it’s not 
a commitment to do whatever it takes. It’s not a guarantee that we will get there, but it’s simply 
saying we are not going to raise rates until we achieve it. And this is essentially what the ECB 
announced in August. 
Now, I’m very sympathetic with the scenario that President Rosengren and Governor 
Clarida talked about, which is one in which there is a downturn and the whole yield curve is at 
zero. What do we do? I mean, that’s a tough situation for us, and I’m sympathetic with what 
President Evans said, that it could be that the Congress will have a role to play in that scenario. 
And all of our tools are limited. I mean, I think we all acknowledge that. So, to me, the 
key is, we have to avoid getting there. And that’s why—I know this is not the policy go-round, 
but I am going to use the opportunity to say that we ought to think about using some of these 
tools now to try to avoid getting in that situation of being stuck at the lower bound with a bunch 
of tools that we all acknowledge are limited. And that’s why I think such forward guidance 
today could be effective. And I would just note, and I appreciated the staff’s candor, the two 
risks that they saw are: one, the risk that it doesn’t work—okay, that’s true with all of our 

policies—and the other risk is that it’s too powerful. Of all of the tools we’ve talked about 
today, this is the only tool that they’ve said might be too powerful. So that’s a feature, as far as I 
am concerned. 
I would also note that, as President Bullard talked about how forward guidance works, it 
is changing the expectations about the path of the policy rate. Look at the power of the move 
that the Committee implemented from December through the spring. There was no change in 
actual policy, but that “pivot” had a big effect on economic conditions, on financial market 
conditions, and on the housing market even before we actually cut the federal funds rate. So 
forward guidance away from the ELB just recently has shown that it can be very, very powerful 
if we use it. I think we ought to use it to try to avoid getting to the lower bound. 
Turning to negative rates, I’m skeptical, as many of you are. I think it provides limited 
policy space, but maybe I am more sympathetic. Imagine a scenario in which we are at zero 
across the yield curve. In that situation, might we want to lower the front end of the curve? 
Maybe. So I think I’m not so ready to dismiss it as enormously costly. We may get dragged 
there. It might not just be us choosing to go there. 
And then, in terms of the balance sheet, I favor flow-based balance sheet policy. I’m 
more sympathetic to yield curve control, as others have said, in conjunction with forward 
guidance and in conjunction with specific outcome-based triggers and outcome-based policy. I 
think the two can work very, very well together. 
I would be very interested to see the staff run some scenarios. I mean, be very specific. 
This is the scenario that we are seeing when we go into this yield curve control. Here are the 
possible outcomes. Here are the possible problem scenarios and how we get out of it. I think 
this is very complicated, and I’d like to see some very specific scenarios considering how it can 

go wrong and how it can go right—just thinking through what are the potential tradeoffs. That 
would be helpful to me. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let me be the 15th person to say “thank you” to the 
staff for the excellent memos. I have found the whole review of our long-run framework to be 
excellent so far, but many questions remain. And so, for me at this point, it’s less about taking 
tools off the list than about prioritizing their use and figuring out where we might need more 
study. 
And I, like others have said, don’t think we were anywhere close or maybe even we can’t 
get to a place where we have a playbook that says, “When this happens, use these,” but, rather, 
we’re just evaluating the tools. I might like to see some “tabletops,” largely to try to think about 
policy interactions and where we’re going to fall flat, because we don’t even have terminology 
that we all agree means the same thing. I think that’s the big benefit in that practice. 
While the particulars of our future situations are surely going to be different, and we’ll 
have to be nimble in those situations, the overarching problem remains the same, and that’s how 
best to achieve our mandated goals and deliver on a symmetric inflation target in an era with 
persistently low r* and more frequent encounters or near encounters with the ELB. And, as 
President Kashkari said, this is really about avoiding getting there and then using these when we 
have to, as opposed to thinking that these are as good, and thus it’s okay if we hit it. I think 
that’s really important to emphasize. 
As we pursue our objectives, the funds rate, of course, remains our primary policy tool. 
And next on the list, in my opinion, is forward guidance, which I view as a very well established 

form of routine policymaking at this point, appearing regularly in qualitative form in FOMC 
statements over the years and in quantitative form in the Summary of Economic Projections. 
This type of forward guidance has proven effective in a range of economic conditions, 
good and bad—at the ELB, but also away from it. And I thought President Kashkari had it 
written down here, but I will just say—he already mentioned it—that the actions since 
December, just with the SEP and our communications and our statement changes, really did 
change how the mortgage interest rates and the housing market performed well before we did all 
of the cuts that we had penciled in. I think this is something we know how to use, and we’ve got 
practice at it. 
So then, under more challenging circumstances such as actually being at the lower bound, 
I would start with more direct forms of forward guidance as the best and most practical method 
of reliably providing additional accommodation. And, among the different variants of this type 
of forward guidance, my read of the evidence favors outcome-based measures, because, as many 
have said, they automatically calibrate policy in response to incoming economic information. 
Explicitly linking future monetary policy actions to macroeconomic conditions fosters 
transparency and accountability and reduces the public’s uncertainty about the path of policy. 
It’s really the path of policy that matters the most. 
And so, by contrast, date-based forward guidance can be powerful, and it was powerful. 
But the experience over the past decade suggests that it may create undesirable tradeoffs between 
policy flexibility and credibility. We really have to do the date-based guidance if we are going to 
have it be credible the next time we need to use it. 

I remain humble about these situations. We are likely to face situations in which we 
don’t have the choice but to use things that we would have low on the list. And so, for that 
reason, I don’t want to have an ex-ante playbook that says we’ll never use something, but more 
just this rank ordering that I went through. 
So then, when we turn to episodes when the federal funds rate is constrained by the lower 
bound but downturns are even more severe and can’t be solved with simple forward guidance, I 
would next turn to balance sheet policies. Although both our experience with, and economic 
research on, these tools are limited, I think there is little doubt that QE contributed to the 
recovery of the economy in the aftermath of the financial crisis. 
With Governor Quarles now certified by self revelation as an ambassador of its 
effectiveness [laughter], it will surely be more effective from now on. Still, even with that great 
endorsement, I think we need to be humble about what we know. As I and others have noted in 
previous meetings, and President Mester mentioned today, the literature on the effects of balance 
sheet policy is split between mostly Federal Reserve staff studies that find substantial effects and 
academic literature that reveals greater skepticism. 
That doesn’t mean they are right and we’re wrong. It just means some caution on this is 
warranted. So continued study of these effects and any associated conditionality—a financial 
market crisis in which the markets are very impaired, versus a normal economic downturn—is 
essential. And this will put us in the best position to activate these policies should another deep 
recession occur. 
On the final tools described in the memo, negative interest rates and yield curve control, 
more study is truly warranted. Negative interest rates are having mixed results in other 
countries, as many have mentioned. In the United States there are many intermediaries, such as 

community banks and money market funds, that would feel a disproportionate effect from these 
policies. So I am not optimistic that we could just apply them today and we would get the same 
results that maybe the euro area is getting. But we shouldn’t, in my opinion, completely rule 
them out, because we’re in a situation in which we want to never say never. More study and 
having them at the ready could be important. 
Now, yield curve control is, I think, theoretically appealing. It directly targets the asset 
markets we are trying to influence through the funds rate, so it goes to the rates that we want to 
influence through the transmission mechanism. But uncertainty about r* creates risks of 
misjudging the appropriate target rates, especially as you get out along the yield curve. And 
achieving yield curve control, by definition, as the staff memos describe, means to lose tight 
control over the size of the balance sheet. So more research on these tradeoffs is needed, if we 
are going to have those in our toolkit. 
In sum, in a world with low r*, we will need to be prepared to deploy a range of tools to 
support the economy. But given the uncertainty about their effects, serious consideration of a 
monetary policy framework that works to more automatically stabilize the economy by naturally 
keeping rates lower for longer is warranted. And I think this is something we can do in our long-
run consensus statement—and, really, should make a top priority. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. On account of the breathtaking 
number of go-rounds today, I will try to keep my remarks brief. I am told that brevity is a sign 
of wit. We shall see. [Laughter] I want to add my thanks to the staff. I thought the memos did 
a great job of summarizing what we know, what we’ve learned from our experience and the 

experience of central banks around the world, but also highlighting, importantly, where the 
uncertainties lie and where the debates are. And I think that was very helpful. 
I do think one thing that would be good for us to do is avoid the terminology—and I’m 
not talking about the briefing, more about the discussion regarding “nonstandard” and 
“unconventional.” I think we should be clear to ourselves and honest with ourselves that forward 
guidance and balance sheet policies are conventional. They are being used around the world and 
will be, I think, in any future downturn that we may face. So calling them “nonstandard” or 
“unconventional” does, I think, put you in a different mindset—how you think about them. And 
I think the evidence from the experience and research is that these are really just parts of our 
toolkit. 
Again, like many others, I think what we’ve learned from experience and from the 
research and analysis is that we do have this playbook or this toolkit that tells us what a lot of 
options are and different circumstances. And, as many have already said, we can’t know in 
advance what play we’ll want to call, given circumstances, so I don’t really want to get into the 
game of trying to say, you know, what kind of forward guidance you would use, what kind of 
balance sheet policy you will use. 
We know, from having been through this, that it really depends on the circumstances. 
What is important is that we have a playbook. But given that the 49ers are back into a good, 
strong football team, I’m going to go back to my history of what Bill Walsh did when he was 
heading the 49ers. He would script the first dozen or so plays at the beginning before the game, 
preparing what are the best attacks against the defenders, knowing the other team, and knowing 
that, as the game progressed, you were going to have to adjust that. And I think we should have 
that same approach. We can’t anticipate every circumstance. But we should have a clearer 

strategy and, I think, articulate that strategy as well as we can, giving information about how 
we’ll use our tools. 
I do think—and this is something that I know President Daly and others said—part of this 
is about helping, even in times when we’re not at the lower bound, the public understand how 
we’ll address it, which should add confidence to and support the effectiveness of our actions. So 
I do think aggressively cutting rates to zero in the face of a downturn or significant risk to the 
economy is the first. 
The second is using forward guidance and perhaps yield curve control—but using 
forward guidance to really keep expectations of short-term rates out for a few years when we 
think it’s most consistent with achieving our dual-mandate goals and, obviously, using the 
balance sheet as appropriate. And that’s my ordering. And then you kind of get into the issues 
about what the specifics are. But I think having that clear understanding that that’s what our first 
scripted plays will be is important. 
Now, I’ve heard the words “be humble.” I heard President Daly say that, President 
Mester. I have often been told of the benefits of humility [laughter], but I don’t think we should 
take that approach to monetary policy in the next downturn. We don’t want to be humble. We 
don’t want to be timid. We need to be decisive. We need to act quickly, aggressively. We are 
going to face situations of uncertainty, but we know from experience that the sooner we can get 
accommodation into the economy—stimulus into the economy—the sooner it reduces the effects 
of the downturn and gets the economy back on track. 
If I go back to what we experienced in the early parts of the crisis and the recovery, if 
anything, the lesson is, we should have acted more quickly and more aggressively, not the other 
way around. So I do think one of the challenges for this Committee in a downturn is to cast 

aside the doubts, the uncertainties, the confidence bands, and the discomfort with some of these 
actions on balance sheet policy or forward guidance and recognize that it’s really the tough 
decisions, the uncomfortable ones, that are the ones that have the biggest effect. 
I remember looking at the use of date-based guidance on August 9, 2011. That was a 
very contentious discussion in this room, with a number of dissents, and a difficult decision to 
make, I think, for everybody. That said, it was an incredibly powerful decision—really shifting 
markets’ understanding of what our policy approach was going to be. 
I guess I want to end where President Rosengren started with his first question, which I 
think is the real question for all of us. And my fear is that, as we go through the debate and 
discussion about date-based versus outcome-based, flow-based, stock-based, that we are actually 
whistling past a graveyard here. The real issue is not about, are we going to affect short-term 
interest rate or longer-term interest rate expectations? My expectation, to answer President 
Rosengren’s perhaps rhetorical question is that, if we have a downturn—an actual recession, not 
a crisis but a downturn—the two-year yield will be zero or negative. We won’t need to do 
anything to accomplish that. We are starting at such a low point. Everybody knows we are 
going to cut to near zero. Everybody knows we are going to keep rates near zero for a couple of 
years in that situation, because that’s the right thing to do. 
So we are not going to have the problem, at least initially, of controlling the yield curve 
at the short end. I think that is just going to happen automatically. I’m not saying that’s good 
news. I’m saying that’s just the reality we’re in. I think even at a five-year yield, I would say 
the probability of a five-year yield being zero or even below zero is extremely high, even without 
thinking about doing a lot of policy actions. 

So I think that, as we think about these tabletops that Presidents Kaplan and Daly and 
others—Kashkari, I think, commented on, we really need to be real about, what are the scenarios 
that are harder to handle? What are the realities of what the policy options are? And I’m even 
feeling that the question we are asking today—Do you think we should use negative rates?—is 
kind of missing the point. I mean, that’s like a decision to cut the funds rate target below zero. I 
get it. 
Yields at 5 to 10 years are most likely going to be negative in a severe downturn, because 
the term premium is going to be pushed down so low that, even if expected interest rates are 
above zero, the term premium will draw the actual yields below zero. And we could easily have 
a negative-sloped yield curve, with all of the issues that we debate about—the effects on bank 
profitability and things like that. 
Maybe these tabletops will help us change our mindset about what the circumstances are. 
It’s not just about, “Oh, do you like negative rates or not?” But really think about the 
environment of, if you are doing balance sheet policies, you are pushing the 10-year term 
premium maybe down to minus 150 basis points: A, will that work? and, B, what does that 
mean for some of these issues? 
And, you know, all of these comments I am making are not to be negative or critical of 
the thought that’s gone into these issues. I just think we really need to challenge ourselves about 
how we would prepare for those kinds of situations. It does reinforce my view, and I think 
Governor Brainard made this point too, that we really need to keep inflation expectations 
anchored at target. Every basis point matters. I want to hold on to this precious policy space that 
we have right now, because if we get into a situation like the euro area or Japan, then all of these 
issues we are talking about are going to be that much harder. Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And thank you for a great set of memos and a great set 
of comments. I think it’s all been said and said well. And so I just have a few brief things that 
I’ll share. 
On forward guidance and large-scale asset purchases, I agree that they had positive 
effects at the effective lower bound during the crisis and afterward. As for forward guidance, it 
clearly does work in circumstances at and away from the effective lower bound. It really 
depends on the ability to shift expectations. I think President Kashkari’s absolutely right that he 
saw a case of that early this year. 
As far as large-scale asset purchases are concerned, I guess I’m a little less sanguine than 
the memo, and I see that reflected in that very diverse range of perspectives in that broader 
community of analysts. Nonetheless, I do agree that they have positive—perhaps modestly 
positive, but positive effects. I also agree that there are synergies between forward guidance and 
asset purchases. I think we saw that during the crisis. There is an issue, though, that you can run 
into, which we ran into in 2013—which was complexity. At the same time we had a flow-based 
QE3 asset purchase program along with complex “knockouts,” we also had complicated 
thresholds for a while there with complicated “knockouts.” And it was very common during that 
period to talk to market participants and have everything be quite confused and to have people 
really have a hard time understanding it, because some people don’t spend 80 hours a week 
thinking about monetary policy. [Laughter] 
A key point, though—and this is where President Rosengren started and many have hit 
along the way—is these tools worked well in a high-rate environment in which the market 
assumed that a quick return to normal rates was coming. And there is a quite likely scenario, as 
we have heard, I think, that rates will go very low. I mean, I can remember way back in the 

summer of 2019 when the 10-year was at 1.45 percent at a time of 2 percent growth and pretty 
decent prospects. Nonetheless, I would see forward guidance and LSAPs as absolutely in the 
toolkit and in many possible forms. I think the actual form will depend heavily on the facts and 
circumstances at that time. But in this very low rate environment, particularly if rates do drop 
precipitously, as seems likely, the efficacy of these tools will be questioned. 
So that means we move to the next level of tools. I guess I take a more constructive view 
than some others on yield curve control, particularly in a world in which interest rates are very 
low at the outset of an effective lower bound, or even before we get to the effective lower bound, 
long rates may be quite low. I would certainly keep yield curve control in the toolkit. There 
may be situations in which it may prove useful. At this point, we’re looking at tools that we 
don’t “love.” You know, it’s a little bit like that fourth back operation: It’s not something you 
want [laughter], but it’s something that maybe you have to do. The same thing, but to a much 
lesser extent. I agree with all of the concerns about negative interest rates in our institutional 
context. It’s just really not something we want to do, but I think it gets some sort of tail risk 
possibility. 
In terms of what we would buy in QE, I want to put in a vote for a high bar to reach 
before buying anything but Treasury securities. And of course, it’s not legal for us to buy 
anything but Treasury and agency securities. 
In terms of communications, I think there are three things to talk about. The first is—and 
John mentioned this just now—we need to communicate that we will use our tools to assure that 
inflation expectations are anchored in a way that is consistent with achievement of our 
symmetric 2 percent inflation objective. I think the public has to have confidence in that so that 
we don’t see our policy space being eaten away. 

Second, we think we need to communicate the message that we have a range of tools, and 
that we have confidence that they will work to support the economy in the event of a downturn. 
And we’ll use those tools as appropriate and do so aggressively as appropriate. I think it’s quite 
hard to be very specific about it beyond that. 
I would say that there is still a good chance that we will just not have the policy space 
that we need. And, to echo President Evans’s point, I think we’ll be pounding the table for fiscal 
support, because it’s quite likely that we’ll need it. In fact, I tried to include that in conversations 
with people on the Hill in a non-alarming way, just to point out that there is less policy space, 
and the time may come when we don’t expect it, when fiscal policy support will be needed. 
So, again, thank you for a terrific round of comments. And now we will go back to the 
Desk report from Lorie, before having lunch. Thanks very much. 
MS. LOGAN.
2 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be referring to the handout “Material 
for Briefing on Financial Market Developments and Open Market Operations.” 
Financial markets were less volatile over this intermeeting period compared with the 
sharp swings experienced in late summer. Nevertheless, uncertainty about the 
outlook remained elevated, and markets reacted strongly to incoming information. 
I’ll review these developments and discuss expectations for monetary policy and then 
turn to money markets and operations. 
Overall, although U.S. financial conditions were little changed, on net, shown in 
the leftmost column in panel 1, offsetting developments played out over two phases, 
shown in the middle two columns. The first was characterized by concern about 
weaker-than-expected U.S. economic data against a backdrop of continuing global 
growth concerns. The second reflected improved sentiment following some 
attenuation of prominent near-term risks—namely, U.S.–China trade tensions and 
Brexit. Notably, the disruption in funding markets in mid-September appeared to 
have little effect on broader market conditions. 
Panel 2 decomposes the net changes in Treasury yields over the intermeeting 
period by aggregating the daily changes according to the main driver cited by market 
participants each day. Early in the period, contacts focused on signs of weakness in 
U.S. economic data, shown as the gray area. In particular, the weak ISM 
manufacturing and nonmanufacturing “prints” triggered much larger declines in the 
10-year yield than would be predicted from the historical relationship between data 
 
2 The materials used by Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 2). 

surprises and yield moves. Some market participants reportedly saw the ISM “prints” 
as substantiating concerns that global headwinds would spill over into the U.S. 
economy. Later in the period, markets responded strongly to positive news on Brexit 
and a partial U.S.–China trade deal, as shown in the pink and red areas. 
Progress toward a partial trade deal between the United States and China 
modestly eased concerns about the potential for a sharp escalation of trade tensions. 
As shown in yellow in the right-hand bar in panel 3, a majority of respondents to the 
Desk’s surveys now think tariffs will remain at their current level, with the additional 
tariffs scheduled to take effect in mid-December either canceled or delayed. This is a 
notable change compared with September, when a majority expected trade escalation. 
However, sentiment regarding trade has often shifted rapidly, and survey respondents 
continued to highlight ongoing uncertainty. 
Market measures of interest rate implied volatility are also consistent with this 
theme of continuing heightened uncertainty. Implied volatility of short-term interest 
rates, shown as the light blue line in panel 4, is particularly elevated. Meanwhile, 
equity market implied volatility, the dark blue line, looks more in line with historical 
averages. Some contacts have suggested the difference may reflect, in part, an 
expectation that monetary policy will temper shocks that would otherwise weigh on 
equity valuations. 
In an environment of weaker U.S. data and ongoing uncertainty about the global 
outlook, measures of inflation compensation remained near multiyear lows in the 
United States and all-time lows in the euro area, shown in panel 5, although they did 
tick up some in recent weeks. 
In the United States, investors continued to cite downside risks to growth, low 
realized inflation, and, more recently, declines in some survey-based measures of 
inflation expectations. In the euro area, growth remains sluggish, and investor doubts 
persist about monetary policy efficacy. Against this backdrop, Desk surveys and 
market-based measures point to a high likelihood of a 25 basis point cut in the target 
range at this meeting. As shown in panel 6, the number of survey respondents whose 
modal expectation is for a cut at the October meeting increased since the September 
survey. This adjustment reportedly reflected the weaker-than-expected U.S. data and 
the ongoing expectation that the Committee will seek to provide a buffer against 
downside risks. 
As shown in panel 7 on your second exhibit, the probability that respondents now 
place on this outcome is broadly similar to the probability of a 25 basis point cut 
ahead of both the July and September meetings, though the likelihood attached to the 
other outcomes at this meeting has shifted to no cut, as opposed to a larger 50 basis 
point cut. 
In looking further ahead, panel 8 summarizes the market-implied and the survey-
based expectations for the path of policy. The market-implied path suggests that 
investors expect around 50 basis points of additional easing by the end of 2020, 

including any easing expected at this meeting. Meanwhile, the median survey 
respondent’s modal path, shown as the red dots, remains essentially flat after this 
meeting. As we’ve discussed previously, the divergence between the market-implied 
path and modal expectations may, in part, reflect perceived downside risks to the 
outlook. I’d also note that survey respondents’ views are quite dispersed. 
Panel 9 plots the distribution of modal expectations across all survey respondents 
at various horizons through 2022. The median expectation is that, if there were a rate 
cut at this meeting, it would be the Committee’s last over the forecast horizon, as 
indicated by the gray area that represents just one rate cut from the current setting. 
But changes in only a couple of responses could have moved the median expectation 
at most horizons to a lower rate by reducing the gray area and expanding the pink 
area that represents an additional cut. Moreover, a sizable minority expects a target 
rate below 1 percent by mid-2020, as shown by the dark red area. 
What might explain this dispersion in survey respondents’ modal views? We see 
some evidence that respondents’ differing modal policy paths reflect differing views 
on the outlook. For example, in looking at respondents’ expectations for the 
likelihood of a U.S. or global recession within the next 6 months in panel 10, the 
average probability of either of these outcomes is lower among those who expect no 
further cuts beyond the October meeting. 
With most expecting a rate cut at this meeting, market participants’ focus is on the 
signal FOMC communications will send about the path ahead. Panel 11 summarizes 
survey respondents’ views. Roughly half expect a downgrade to the characterization 
of economic conditions, especially household spending or the trend in survey-based 
measures of longer-term inflation expectations. However, most did not indicate 
expectations for material changes to the description of the economic outlook or 
forward guidance in the statement. Several respondents suggested that the statement 
could signal that further near-term rate cuts are less likely than has been the case 
following recent meetings. However, many thought the door would be left open to 
future rate cuts, and several expected the “act as appropriate” language would be 
retained. 
Regarding the press conference, a number of respondents—including both ones 
who anticipate further rate cuts following this meeting and ones who do not—expect 
the Chair to emphasize that monetary policy is data dependent and not on a preset 
course. 
On the remaining exhibits, I’ll turn to an assessment of money market 
developments since early October, when the Committee made the decision to 
maintain reserves at or above the level that prevailed in early September through a 
program of Treasury bill and repo operations. I’ll then discuss the outlook for reserve 
conditions and risks around year-end. 
The October 11 announcement was well received by market participants. The 
timing was sooner than expected, and participants welcomed the details on the 

strategy to maintain ample reserves. As shown in panel 12, money market rates 
moderated, on average, relative to the IOER rate over the intermeeting period, and the 
effective federal funds rate remained within the target range. 
As shown in panel 13, Treasury bill yields fell modestly right after the Federal 
Reserve announcement but were, on net, little changed at the end of the day. 
Since the October 11 announcement, the Desk has conducted regular operations 
that have offered at least $75 billion in overnight repo funding and between 
$135 billion and $170 billion in term funding, as shown in panel 14. These 
operations fostered conditions to maintain the federal funds rate within the target 
range through two channels. First, they provided funding in repo markets that 
damped repo market pressure that would otherwise have passed through to the federal 
funds market, and, second, they supplied more reserves that were distributed across 
the banking system. 
In anticipation of another projected sharp decline in reserves and expected rate 
pressures around October 31, we further increased the size of overnight repos to 
$120 billion and the two term repo operations that crossed the October month-end to 
$45 billion. However, as depicted back in panel 12, despite the significant presence 
in repo markets, federal funds rates are still higher relative to the IOER rate and more 
variable than earlier in the year. This may relate to the frictions associated with repo 
operations that limit our ability to fully offset this pressure. For example, take-up in 
some operations was below the amount offered even when market rates were well 
above the minimum bid rate. One reason is that dealers view the expansion of their 
balance sheets for this activity as costly and appear willing to intermediate from our 
operations to other participants only if the spreads are very attractive. In fact, there 
was pressure around the mid-October settlement date, despite term operations being 
undersubscribed. 
With respect to the reserve management purchases of Treasury bills, we’ve 
purchased more than half of the initial $60 billion monthly amount for October. The 
five operations so far were well covered, and the pricing offered by primary dealers 
was quite attractive. 
For now, we expect the initial pace of Treasury bill purchases to be maintained. 
There are roughly $2.4 trillion of Treasury bills outstanding, and the daily turnover in 
bills is roughly $85 billion. In addition, as shown in panel 15, the SOMA portfolio 
currently owns a very small amount of bills and is significantly below the Treasury 
bill proportion of Treasury securities outstanding. 
Respondents to the Desk surveys also expect reserve management purchases of 
Treasury bills to continue at the same pace for some time. As shown in panel 16, the 
median Desk survey respondent expected Treasury bill purchases to remain at 
$60 billion per month through March 2020 and then to decline, reaching $30 billion 
by June. The purchases have proceeded smoothly so far, but we will continue to 

monitor the competitiveness of the operations and indicators of market functioning to 
assess capacity and stand ready to adjust if appropriate. 
With that update on our operations, I’ll turn to current reserve conditions. The 
current repo operations and bill purchases are lifting reserve levels above those 
observed in early September. Panel 17, which we also showed at the July meeting, 
plots the daily level of reserves and the spread between the effective federal funds 
rate and IOER, updated with the most recent experience. This chart shows what 
appears to be a notable steepening in the reserve demand curve at just below $1.4 
trillion, and in mid-September, when reserves fell to $1.3 trillion, money market rates 
became quite elevated, as shown in the highest light blue dot. 
What other observations do we take from this experience? Panel 18 gives a brief 
summary. Some of the significant elevation in the federal funds rate on September 17 
reflected pass-through from the extraordinary rate volatility in repo markets. This is a 
dynamic we’ve been reporting since April this year although with more limited 
effects than we saw in September. The sharp moves in rates also occurred against the 
backdrop of an ongoing decline in reserve levels, though the drop in reserves in mid-
September was especially steep and revealed a point at which distributional frictions 
increased unsecured rates. Although some banks were willing to borrow at high rates 
to maintain reserve balances, bank lending in the federal funds market increased only 
modestly, reflecting reluctance to lend in unsecured interbank markets among banks 
that had surplus reserves. Further, some of the banks that hold surplus reserves 
consider their lowest comfortable level of reserves as a firm minimum and have 
expressed to us a preference for maintaining higher balances when possible. When 
asked about these additional reserve holdings above their lowest comfortable level of 
reserves in the August Senior Financial Officer Survey, the most important reason 
banks cited was a desire to hold a cushion of reserves against unexpected outflows. 
Over time, banks may adjust their reserve management practices to operate with 
lower levels of reserves, and markets may become more efficient at redistributing 
liquidity. However, it appears for now that reserves at or above the current level are 
required to maintain an ample regime. 
In looking ahead, at least initially, the repo operations will be an important 
component for supplying reserve balances above the levels that prevailed in early 
September. Assuming full take-up at overnight and term repo operations currently 
offered, reserves would be around $1.5 trillion at the end of October and remain fairly 
stable at around $1.6 trillion for most of November. This path is indicated as the total 
area, including both the solid and shaded areas, in panel 19. 
There is uncertainty in this outlook, though. For example, it is based on 
projections of Federal Reserve liabilities, which may change over time. In that 
regard, I want to provide an update about a planned change in policy for one of these 
Fed liabilities that may increase reserve levels relative to the reserve forecast shown. 
In light of the Committee’s January 2019 operating framework decision and a desire 
to reduce operational risk associated with the current pricing approach, the staff 
revisited the rate used to price the foreign RP pool. As repo rates have increased 

relative to the IOER rate since 2018, the pricing has become attractive, and usage has 
increased, as shown in panel 20. 
After consulting with the Chair, the New York Fed, authorized as the selected 
bank, intends to change the rate on the foreign RP pool to the overnight RRP rate, 
given the significant similarities between the RP pool and overnight RRP facility. 
This change is expected to be implemented by the end of the year, and the slightly 
lower rate may result in some modest outflows from the pool over time and 
corresponding increases in reserve balances. 
Another uncertainty in the outlook for reserves is that dealers may not take up all 
of the repo operations in coming months, as I noted earlier, particularly given balance 
sheet constraints heading into year-end. The projection using an estimate of take-up 
based on recent experience is shown as the total of the solid areas back in chart 19. 
The difference between the solid and the shaded areas suggests that reserves could 
fluctuate within a range of around $1.45 trillion to $1.65 trillion between now and 
January. 
Potentially lower take-up at repo operations and the generally diminished 
willingness of dealers to intermediate across money markets in December may result 
in upward pressure on short-term money market rates. Indeed, forward measures of 
market pricing continue to indicate somewhat notable pressure around year-end. As 
shown in panel 21, since September 16, the spread between the implied rates on 
SOFR and federal funds futures contracts has come down for the contract months 
before and after December. However, the spread on the December contracts is about 
9 basis points, roughly unchanged from its level on September 16. As this spread 
reflects differences between the expected average SOFR and effective federal funds 
rates over the calendar month of December, the spread on the year-end date itself 
could be significantly larger. Using one indicator: Forward starting repo trades for a 
two-day period around year-end have recently traded at levels of over 3.25 percent. 
We will continue to monitor money market conditions closely and will adjust 
operations as needed to maintain the effective federal funds rate within the target 
range and to achieve over time a level of reserve balances at or above those that 
prevailed in early September. Based on our recent experience of bill purchases, we 
intend to continue with a purchase schedule of $60 billion in bills for now. However, 
as we approach year-end, we may adjust repo operations further to help maintain the 
federal funds rate within the target range. 
I’ll conclude with two operational notes. First, the New York Fed will release 
next week a request for public comment on a plan to publish a series of backward-
looking SOFR averages and a daily SOFR index to support the transition away from 
LIBOR-based instruments. We expect to initiate publication in the first half of 2020. 
Second, the Desk will conduct a small-value repo that will settle on a one-day-
forward basis, also known as “regular” settlement. Repo for regular settlement has 
become an increasingly important segment of the repo market, and conducting this 
exercise should provide assurance that we could use this settlement option should we 

assess it will enhance effective policy implementation. Additional upcoming small-
value operations are summarized in the appendix. That completes our presentation, 
and we’d be happy to take any comments or questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Thank you. Any questions for— 
MR. CLARIDA. Yes. Lorie, thank you for the excellent briefing. A couple of questions 
on figures 17 and 18. Obviously, figure 17—we’ve seen versions of this chart before. As I 
recall in some past briefings, we’ve seen a version of this chart in change-over-change, so the 
change in this spread versus the change in reserves—this is in levels. So I guess the question is, 
is that showing similar or different information about potential pressures? 
I’ll just bundle my questions. The second question is with regard to 18, because I think 
this is an issue that we’re trying to understand. And I went back and reread the surveys, and they 
were very clear to me. So how do we interpret a bank that tells us that it has the lowest 
comfortable level of reserves, and now it tells us that it’s actually not the lowest comfortable 
level? The lowest comfortable level of reserves is the lowest comfortable level of reserves plus 
$40 billion. 
MS. LOGAN. Okay. I’m going to take the second question, and Patricia is going to take 
the first one. 
MR. CLARIDA. Okay. 
MS. LOGAN. On the survey, we started that process with systematic outreach to the 
banks to better understand how the organization as a whole was thinking about these issues, and 
that helped us develop the questions for the survey. And I would make a couple of observations 
about how we think some of the firms are approaching it. First, I think in reporting the lowest 
comfortable level of reserves on the survey, they’re reporting what they see as the governance 
minimum within the institution, and that governance minimum is something for which they 
would take action so that they wouldn’t go below that level. But they may decide that if they 

happen to have reserves above that level, they’d be happy to maintain them and they would not 
go out and arbitrage using that level above that. 
So, for example, if you took a bank that may have reported $100 billion in their lowest 
comfortable level of reserves and maybe they started the day with $200 billion, they might be 
willing to arbitrage, bringing that level of reserves down to maybe $140 billion but not the full 
amount, because they wanted to protect themselves against unexpected outflows. And we saw 
that in practice with respect to a couple of large G-SIBs. 
Second, within the organization as a whole, at lower levels of management, they may add 
buffers on top of that so that they then don’t need to report up to their senior level of 
management if they were going to go below. As the institution is large and it’s complex, it’s 
difficult to know for sure how various trading desks are really putting that information into 
action. So those are some of the things that I think we saw with respect to the survey, and we 
can adjust over time in how we’re asking those questions. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you. 
MS. ZOBEL. In response to the second question you asked: We showed a chart giving 
the levels of reserves and the level of the federal funds–IOER rate spread. The staff, both here 
and in New York, have done a lot of work examining the relationship and changes with 
analytical models, and some of that was given to the Committee through a technical note that 
was circulated ahead of the September meeting. Over longer time horizons, what was 
established is that there has been a relationship between changes in the federal funds rate and 
changes in reserve levels. Over time, as reserves levels have come down, that relationship has 
gotten stronger. 

In the most recent experience, there’s been a lot of volatility, and we are reluctant to look 
at this relationship over very short time horizons. So I don’t know what the relationship is, let’s 
say, over the past 20 days or how that has added to the long-term relationship that has been 
established through the models. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Just two basic questions. You mentioned about the year-end stresses, 
and that we’re going to need to make some adjustments. I’ll ask you—just between what we’re 
talking about today on repo as well as the open market purchase plan, do you feel like you have 
enough fire power or authorization from this Committee to do what you need to do to get us 
through year-end? 
MS. LOGAN. There are a couple of things that we would be thinking about going into 
year-end. One of them, with the current directive with respect to the repos, is exploring this 
difference between term and overnight, and we’ve been learning as we’ve been conducting the 
repos about the value that our counterparties place on the term versus the overnight. So we can 
first look to adjust that mix, and we did that for the October month-end. 
The second is that we could consider lowering the minimum bid rate to make the 
operations more attractive, and that is within the governance that’s already been established. 
We’re also exploring this concept of a forward-settling repo. That’s a small issue about 
settlements that we could make, but it could make the instrument a little bit more attractive as 
well. Of course, we could also bring forward some purchases if we thought that bringing those 
purchases forward would further support year-end conditions, the ones that have already been 
authorized. So we could also look to bring those forward. 

I think, between upsizing and some changes around the repos, those would be effective 
tools. The only other thing that we have that we’re watching is with respect to the purchases of 
Treasury bills and whether we may need to make adjustments to the composition. If we did, that 
would require a governance change. As I discussed today, I don’t think that’s necessary at this 
time. 
MR. KAPLAN. And just one follow-up: I gather we’re having discussions that are, 
obviously, at the desk level, middle-management level. Are we having discussions at the senior 
management level? Because I’m thinking of past situations. And I’m not worried about next 
year yet, I’m just thinking about getting through year-end when we’re talking to the CEOs of the 
four or five largest banks, just so that they’re constructive in doing what they can to help us at 
least through year-end before we worry about the tax payments date in April. And if you’d 
rather not say in this way, I understand, but— 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. What do you mean by “constructive”? [Laughter] 
MR. KAPLAN. In the past, having sat in those seats, when you get a call from the Fed or 
from Treasury who say, “We’re concerned about ‘blank.’ Would you—?” Their reaction 
function at that level versus midlevel and desk level is a very different reaction function, where 
at this level, our attitude was always we’re going to try to be constructive, even if it’s not 
completely in our economic interest—we’re going to try to do what we need to do, because we 
got a phone call. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. We are actively engaging in all levels of the organization. 
MR. KAPLAN. OK, good. That’s all I need to know. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. They seem to think that they want to be constructive as well, 
by the way. [Laughter] 

CHAIR POWELL. Just to offer something, which is in terms of buying other short-term 
securities, short Treasury bonds. John, I think, has mentioned that as a possibility, and we’ve 
always said, “Of course, we’re willing to adapt.” So I think if we’ve said that, it’s out there. 
And I think, if we have to do it, then it won’t be a big surprise. It won’t sound like some huge 
change. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I don’t know if you’ll be alarmed or pleased, but I was reading the reserve 
conditions report for research directors in detail, and I noticed that the number one reason given 
for excess reserve demand over the comfortable limit was this concern about unexpected 
payment outflows. I just have a question. Why are they so confused about their payment 
outflows? They’re large institutions. So what’s the unexpected part in this? Is this always 
something they’ve had but now it’s solved with reserves, or is it something new that we should 
take some other kind of signal from? 
MS. LOGAN. As we discussed, I think that has been a big theme that we’ve been 
hearing through the systematic outreach. But it came out clearly in the last survey, because we 
asked specifically about it. I mean, I think a background factor in the way they’re thinking about 
the deposit outflows reflects their views about daylight overdraft and the discount window to 
some extent, because the concern is really being left short at the end of the day. 
And I think some of those issues existed pre-crisis, but they’re really much more 
prominent post-crisis, and I think that, plus the risk-management experience and the value of 
liquidity generally that the senior management encourages within institution, leads to a very low 
risk-tolerance perspective with respect to their liquidity position, which also has many benefits 
from a financial stability perspective as well. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. President Rosengren. 

MR. ROSENGREN. A comment on reserves, and then a question. When I talk to large 
banks, the number of capital ratios and liquidity ratios—and when you try to do a linear 
programming problem for the number of capital and liquidity ratios we have, that’s not 
particularly straightforward. And just—the large institution in my District argues that they have 
a tough time figuring out which of the various curves at various points are binding and which 
ones aren’t. 
So the logical reaction to the complicated regulatory structure we have is that you build 
in buffers. And if you don’t want to be close to the line, I guess I have less confidence that over 
time we’re going to see these buffers go down unless we go through a major change in how 
complicated our regulatory structure is, which may or may not happen. I don’t see it happening 
quickly. I guess I’d be less confident that the level of buffers over time would move. 
The second, which is a question, is a question on your chart 2, “Changes in U.S. Treasury 
Yields over the Intermeeting Period by Driver.” And so I’m looking at the gray bar, which is 
U.S. data, and at the two-year it has—I don’t know, 35—somewhere between 35 and 40 basis 
points. And then I look at the forecast in the Tealbook, which had the second half of the year go 
down 0.2 percent, and that seemed pretty consistent with how the private-sector forecasts viewed 
the incoming data. So how do you square the very large movements in Treasury security 
movements to data with the fact that almost all of the forecasters have not changed their forecast 
very much at all? So should we be concerned about our forecast? Has the world become very 
sensitive to very small changes in outlook? How would you square that? Because I find that 
gray bar seems oversized relative to the movement of the forecasts. 
MS. ZOBEL. I think what we saw over the intermeeting period were two effects at work. 
I think there was some data that people perceived as substantiating a slowdown in some sectors 

of the U.S. economy on a current basis, related to what they saw as maybe the effects of trade. 
And this was something that they reacted to. The reaction in markets was stronger than the 
reaction that we normally see for a surprise of that size. 
But I think you also saw some offsetting effects, which were related to the fact that some 
of the risks to the outlook diminished a little bit. For example, there’s modestly more positive 
sentiment regarding China trade negotiations, and there was a little bit of a reduction in the tail 
risk associated with a Brexit event, as well. So I think the offsetting effects to the current and the 
expected resulted in little net change over the period. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. This is a question for Lorie—back on reserve levels. I think I heard you 
say that in mid-October we still had pressures, but the offering was undersubscribed. So can you 
give me a feel for why that was? And then, why was it undersubscribed if there were these 
pressures? And does that—should we infer anything about the effectiveness of these repo 
operations to actually help us control some of the spikes? 
MS. LOGAN. And some of the counterparties that we transact with have indicated that 
the balance sheet cost of conducting repos are quite expensive, given some of the regulatory 
measurements that they use internally for balance sheet usage. And so if the spreads between 
what they take the repo from us and then lend to others is not sufficiently wide, then they will not 
take down the operation and intermediate. Even if the market spread is wider relative to the 
minimum bid rate that we see, if the full distribution of rates is not wide enough, we might not 
see that full take-up. 
Now, they’re also taking down their repo operations because the rates are lower than 
maybe they’re receiving on the transactions that they’re borrowing for, so—their own funding 

needs, not what they are doing to intermediate. And we see that sometimes they won’t even 
substitute between the lower rates, because they want to maintain that relationship with the 
private-sector counterparty that’s really going to be important for them over the long run, 
knowing that the Federal Reserve’s intention is not to stay in these repo operations. 
Both of those frictions are going to limit the full effectiveness of the repo operations for 
achieving the two objectives that we set out to use them. Now, overall, they’re performing quite 
well. It’s just not the perfect pass-through that we’d like to see. 
MS. MESTER. And does that mean, then, if we do come to some agreement of how 
we’re going to handle this on a more sustained basis, that that would alleviate one of those 
frictions? 
MS. LOGAN. The key thing we’re focusing on is building up the securities holdings, 
because the repos in the securities are not perfect substitutes. And so we’re trying to be really 
focused on that pace of the bill purchases to build up the underlying level of reserves. And then, 
some of the things that I mentioned earlier to the question from President Kaplan are that there, 
are some smaller things that we might be able to do and adjust the repos to make them a little 
more effective with respect to that pass-through, so we’re looking at the settlement. And then 
this balance between term and overnight, and which one is more attractive for the counterparties, 
for the pass-through, or their own funding, is something that we are continuing to learn. And this 
week, with the month-end term transaction we did today, and what we see in the overnight on the 
month-end, that will give us some more information that will help us structure the repos for the 
year-end. 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair Williams. 

VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Yes. I agree with everything Lorie just said. I think that the 
angst that we experienced was that even though we were doing a huge amount, offering a lot of 
repos, we saw the funds rate trade at, I think, 1.9 percent, at a point when you’re thinking, that’s 
actually pretty steep relative to the IOER rate, given how much total reserves—so I think, just at 
a very basic level, clearly having roughly $1.45 trillion to $1.5 trillion total reserves in the 
system is helping keep the funds rate in the range. 
What it’s not doing is getting that relatively low level and low volatility that you would 
expect at that level of total reserves. Just to reiterate what Lorie said: These aren’t perfect 
substitutes, and our expectation is that as the level of underlying security holdings continues to 
go up, we’re going to see something like in chart 12 that looks more like what we saw in the 
summer when the funds rate trades were relatively close to—a little bit above—the IOER rate. It 
doesn’t move around as much as we’ve seen recently. 
And right now, we’re actually in a “sweet spot.” The amount of reserves is kind of high 
enough that the funds rate is trading closer to the IOER rate. But that’s the not-perfect-
substitutes part that—and, you know, when you’re sitting there and you’re watching the screen 
come up and, is it going to be 1.90 or 1.93 or 1.95, with each basis point getting closer to the top 
of the range—it’s definitely at least a quadratic loss function. [Laughter] Thanks. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? [No response] Seeing none, we need a vote to 
ratify the domestic open market operations conducted since the September meeting. Do I have a 
motion to approve? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So moved. 

CHAIR POWELL. All in favor? [Chorus of ayes] Approved. Thanks very much. We 
will now take a 45-minute lunch break. And the reason is, we have a lot more to do today. It’s a 
long day. So I’ll see you at 10 minutes of, by that clock. 
[Lunch recess] 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Our next agenda item is a review of the options for repo 
operations to support control of the federal funds rate. It is a timely discussion. It’ll be a 
thoughtful one. It’ll be succinct, I hope, but it will not be decisional. So let’s get started with 
staff briefings from Patricia Zobel and Laura Lipscomb. Over to you, Patricia. 
MS. ZOBEL.3 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will refer to the handout on repo 
operations. From the experience in September that Lorie described, we learned more 
about potential shocks to money markets and the effectiveness of repo operations in 
restoring calm and maintaining the effective federal funds rate within the target range. 
Repo operations are currently an important part of maintaining reserves above the 
level that prevailed in early September and mitigating the risk of money market 
pressures. Plans have been announced for repo operations through the end of 
January, and reserve management purchases of Treasury bills are ongoing and will, 
over time, build up levels of reserves more permanently. 
The staff memo discusses options for the Committee to consider should it wish to 
maintain ongoing repo operations after January. Ongoing repo capacity could 
complement a regime with ample reserves by providing insurance against pressures 
that may unexpectedly emerge in money markets, putting upward pressure on the 
federal funds rate. These could occur through spillover from other funding markets 
or other unexpected shifts in the demand for or supply of reserves that affect the 
federal funds rate more directly. As levels of reserves rise, the probability of such 
pressures may diminish, and at higher levels of reserves, the likelihood of these 
pressures affecting the federal funds market may become quite low. So the extent to 
which the Committee values this insurance is, at least in part, related to the ultimate 
level of reserves it wishes to maintain. 
As the FOMC considers how ongoing repo operations fit into an ample-reserves 
regime, lessons drawn from the recent experience could inform the design of such 
operations. I will discuss three main lessons before turning it over to Laura to talk 
about options and some associated policy considerations. 
The first lesson and, most importantly, our recent experience with repo operations 
demonstrated that they are effective at restoring calm in money markets and 
 
3 The materials used by Mses. Zobel and Lipscomb are appended to this transcript (appendix 3). 

maintaining control over the federal funds rate. This was not a foregone conclusion. 
We had not operated in repo markets for over 10 years before September, and dealer 
business models have changed markedly over that time. What we found, though, was 
that dealers were willing to engage in these operations, and the transmission to money 
markets was very good. Repo operations provided additional funding to dealers, 
reducing pressures in repo markets that were passing through to the federal funds rate. 
In addition, the repos added reserves. We found that these reserves were distributed 
across the system, easing pressures on banks whose reserve balances had fallen close 
to their lowest comfortable level of reserves and that were borrowing at elevated rates 
to maintain reserve levels. Overall, the operations were effective at maintaining the 
federal funds rate within the target range. 
Nonetheless, as a second lesson, we also learned that determining when to 
introduce repo operations and calibrating the size and rate of those operations to 
appropriately meet the policy objective can be complex. Operating once pressures 
emerge can appear reactive and requires larger operations to restore confidence. The 
Desk has the ability to move quickly; however, money market events are not always 
predictable. In September, the sizes of the tax payment and Treasury settlement were 
not exceptional, and forward rates suggested that market participants expected a 
typical amount of pressure on that date. However, the reaction to these events was 
really extraordinary. This degree of pressure was not really foreseeable. 
Calibrating the parameters of operations is also difficult and requires discretionary 
assessments. Our operations have been well received. However, as shown in figures 
1 and 2, some of the operations have been oversubscribed, as we were not able to 
fully anticipate the amount of funding demanded on particular dates. As Laura will 
discuss, standing operations reduce the need for these discretionary assessments; 
however, they have other costs that the FOMC may also wish to consider. 
Finally, as a third lesson, through this process, we discovered some limitations to 
repo operations. In particular, we find that primary dealers are sometimes reluctant to 
take up in full the Desk’s repo offerings and intermediate to other money market 
segments unless the spread to market rates is wide. This lower take-up can, at times, 
limit the effectiveness of operations at damping upward pressure on rates, particularly 
around settlement and reporting dates when there’s higher volatility in money 
markets. In fact, on the midmonth settlement and month-end dates, we’ve continued 
to see elevated rates and higher dispersion in traded rates, despite having operations 
that were sometimes undersubscribed. These frictions may be a factor heading into 
year end, as Lorie noted, and are something we are watching. 
Overall, our assessment is that repo operations are really quite effective. 
However, discretionary decisions regarding when to act and in what size can be 
difficult, and there are dealer balance sheet constraints that create some limitations. 
With that, I will turn it over to Laura to share options for ongoing repo operations 
informed by this experience. 

MS. LIPSCOMB. Thank you, Patricia. Building on the lessons drawn from 
recent experience that Patricia discussed, the memo provides two different 
approaches to how repo operations could be used in the future to support control of 
the federal funds rate. As noted by Patricia, we expect that, as bill purchases 
accumulate, repo operations will be much less necessary to support control of the 
federal funds rate and provide reserves. But repos could still be important in some 
instances. 
The first approach would be to conduct modestly sized operations on an ongoing 
basis. This approach would maintain a high degree of operational readiness as well 
as a high level of Federal Reserve discretion. The Desk would still need to determine 
when and how much to ramp up operations to address money market pressures that 
could spill over to the federal funds rate. The second approach would be to offer a 
standing repo facility to provide an automatic backstop to market rates and a means of 
supplying reserves. These two approaches result in different tradeoffs and policy 
considerations. 
First, I will address how the two different options provide different levels of 
assurance of control of the federal funds rate. A standing facility with a large offering 
size at a rate modestly above the top of the federal funds target range would provide 
strong assurance that repo market volatility would be contained and not pass through 
to the federal funds rate. The facility could provide an automatic stabilizer, providing 
funding and reserve balances when money market rates rise. 
In contrast, frequent, modestly sized repo operations would have less ability to 
automatically stabilize rates. But, with more of an ongoing presence in the repo 
market, the Desk and its counterparties would be more ready to act if pressures 
emerged than was the case in September. Nevertheless, the Desk would need to 
anticipate and calibrate operation terms to perceived funding needs or needs for 
reserves—which, as Patricia discussed, has proven challenging. This approach would 
retain a greater degree of Federal Reserve discretion but could also require greater 
acceptance of variability in the federal funds rate, all else being equal. 
The second tradeoff I will discuss is the degree to which operations may become 
stigmatized and thus be less effective for rate control. A standing facility with a 
minimum bid rate well above the federal funds target range would likely see little use 
on most days and thus have the potential to become stigmatized. Stigma could be 
mitigated by a lower minimum bid rate, but this rate setting would incent more 
frequent and larger usage. 
Figures 3 and 4 of your handout depict the distribution of repo and federal funds 
rates relative to the IOER. The repo rates at which our counterparties, the primary 
dealers, typically borrow is represented by the blue area, labeled TGCR, which is the 
triparty general collateral repo rate. As shown in these figures, most TGCR repo 
trading is conducted at rates relatively near to the IOER on normal trading days, but 
the distribution of repo rates, including TGCR, becomes much more dispersed and 
goes well above IOER on month-ends. One means to mitigate stigma on a standing 

facility would be to set the rate at a level where the facility would be likely to be used 
at least occasionally by at least a few of our counterparties. 
Frequent but modestly sized repo operations could have a minimum bid rate 
closer to the IOER rate. The Federal Reserve’s role in the repo market would be 
limited by the smaller size of these operations, but, with the minimum bid rate closer 
to the IOER rate, using the operations would not be stigma inducing. With regular 
operations, the Desk might be able to see signs of emerging pressures if these 
operations began to see higher stop-out rates and higher bid-to-cover ratios. If the 
Desk needed to ramp up the size of the operations based upon judgement that the 
volatility in repo might spill over into federal funds, participating in the operations in 
size would be unlikely to be seen as a signal about an individual firm’s funding 
strains. 
Lastly, we wanted to point to a few broader policy questions associated with 
providing a backstop facility and offer some means to manage concerns. A standing 
facility would represent a commitment to expand the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet 
and provide liquidity at the discretion of the counterparties chosen, currently primary 
dealers. As you know, the Federal Reserve has a long, pre-crisis, history of using 
repo operations with primary dealers to conduct open market operations. A standing 
facility would be different, however, because it would allow the dealers to access 
liquidity at their discretion. Although the eligible collateral and the time of day 
would be constrained, this offering would have some similarities to the discount 
window, which is available only to banks. The standing, fixed-rate nature of the 
facility may lead some to argue that the facility appears akin to a lending facility for 
dealers. Moreover, the facility could create incentives for dealers to take on more 
liquidity risk in their securities portfolios if they knew they had a set rate at which 
these securities could be monetized. 
The Federal Reserve could mitigate the policy issues associated with a standing 
facility through the parameters on the facility. As an open market operation, a 
standing repo facility could, at the maximum, only accept OMO-eligible securities, 
which are Treasury securities, agency debt, and agency MBS. But eligible collateral 
could be further constrained—such as, for example, to only Treasury securities. In 
addition, per counterparty maximum allocations and overall operation size could also 
be limited, which could partly address concerns about the commitment that the 
facility would represent. 
In conclusion, we have provided some perspective on how repo operations have 
been important in recent weeks in keeping the federal funds rate in the target range. 
We expect that in 2020, repo operations will not be needed in the same way. Yet 
recent events have pointed to how repo operations have effectively addressed market 
pressures. In light of this experience, the Committee may wish to incorporate repo 
operations in some way into the implementation framework of an ample-reserves 
regime. Questions along those lines were sent to the Committee ahead of the 
meeting, and we are happy to take questions. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thanks very much. Questions for Patricia and Laura? President 
Harker. 
MR. HARKER. I have a somewhat odd question. We are committed to an ample-
reserves regime, but I think it’s worth—at least at some point, maybe not now—asking 
ourselves, if and when we implement a standing repo facility, are we reducing the complexity 
that we sought to reduce by having a floor system? And if the answer to that is “no,” then should 
we revisit a corridor system? I don’t have the answer to that. 
But, really, the question is, is that just dead? That is, we’re never going to go back. 
That’s a possibility, right? We can just never go back to a scarce-reserves regime. That’s 
possible. But I guess what I’m worried about—and, again, not right now— if we’re not getting 
the benefit of the reduction in complexity, is it worth it? And I’d just like to hear your comments 
on that. 
I don’t have an opinion on that, by the way. It’s just an honest question. 
MS. ZOBEL. One of the things I would note is that a standing repo facility is used in 
most settings. 
MR. HARKER. Yes. 
MS. ZOBEL. Even in floor systems, they have a standing facility just to be a backstop 
for rates for unexpected pressures like we’re talking about here. Most regimes that operate with 
floors have that. But also, on the issue of complexity, one of the things we highlighted when we 
had the discussion about different operating frameworks early on was, it wasn’t just that you had 
to have some form of temporary open market operations. A corridor regime requires you to be 
able to very precisely estimate and manage the supply and demand for reserves, and that, in and 
of itself, is quite a complex exercise. 

I think the options that were being offered today were more consistent with an ample-
reserves regime, where we would be maintaining an ample level of reserves such that 
administered rates were still providing the means of control. But there would be a facility or 
standing repo operations just as a backstop for that. 
MR. HARKER. Yes. So, again, I’m not advocating going away from the ample-reserves 
regime. I do think, as we go down this path, we should at least have, in the back of our minds, 
that there is a potential alternative to it if things don’t work out the way we anticipate. 
MR. LAUBACH. If I can add: I think one issue of complexity that’s specific to the U.S. 
context—and, for example, not present I believe in, say, the ECB’s context—it’s a legal 
distinction between depository institutions and primary dealers. That just creates, inherently, a 
lot of complexity, because of what is written in the law. The ECB doesn’t have to wrestle with 
that distinction. 
MR. HARKER Thank You. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Just a quick follow-up: Do you have a sense of administering a 
standing repo facility? I mean, I get the concept. But, operationally, what will it take—when I 
picture the two alternatives, one alternative is a bunch of smart people at the Desk running 
around with a fire hose every once in a while, using judgment and opening up the fire hose, 
which is not that attractive, in my view—no offense. The other alternative is this automated 
backup facility, which sounds very elegant and very slick. How elegant and slick would it 
actually be in practice? 
MS. ZOBEL. Currently, we’re operating a standing operation, which is the overnight 
RRP, which we conduct every day, and that takes real people to open up the operation, conduct 

it, and then settle it as a normal operation. Operating a standing repo facility would probably be 
of the same operational intensity. I don’t think it would add meaningfully to the staffing or the 
operational intensity of our group. It is one more operation, but we conduct a lot of operations 
every day. 
And in terms of how you would transition to it—so, for example, right now we currently 
are running repo operations every morning. You could imagine, if the Committee were to 
choose either one of these options, that there would be a transition path from these current 
operations to something that looked a little bit more like the ultimate choice that they made. And 
then, after that, it could be refined. Certainly, there are other aspects of this—of a standing 
facility or ongoing operations, improvement opportunities that you might have over how we’re 
doing it in an existing fashion, and those could be implemented over time. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. Okay. If no more questions, why don’t we move to our 
opportunity for comment, beginning with Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to thank the staff for the 
collaboration that has gone on not only in preparing these briefings, but over a long period of 
time thinking through these issues. We had a memo in June. Obviously, there has been a lot of 
work on this. I just want to make a couple of points. They’ve already been covered by Patricia 
and Laura in their remarks, but I think it’s just good for us to remember them when we think 
about this. 
First of all, we are not currently operating what I would think of as the ample-reserves 
regime. We have a shortfall of something on the order of $175 billion to $200 billion relative to 
what we think ample reserves are and our term or overnight open market operations are filling 
that gap currently. We are buying the T-bills, and, over time, as in the chart that Lorie showed, 

chart 19, the reserve balances chart—which I think is a really nice summary of where we are and 
where we’re going—we will get to what I would call a true, ample reserves place in terms of 
having permanent holdings of securities supporting the level of reserves without OMOs 
necessary to have the right amount of reserves. 
When you think about some of the ways we’re operating today, they are really more of 
just adding reserves. So the pricing is at the IOER rate or something equivalent to that for the 
term OMOs, and it’s really doing a different thing. We’re injecting reserves into the system. It’s 
not a backstop. I think everyone knows that, but I think it’s important to keep that in mind. 
When I think of what an ample-reserves system looks like—and we have discussed this 
and debated this thoroughly, and I think have come to a strong agreement on that—an important 
feature of an ample-reserves framework is that success is defined by the not needing to do or, I 
would say, repos would only be an infrequent element of that. In fact, I would say that repos are 
not absolutely necessary for an ample-reserves system to work well. So if you look back at how 
things worked up through this summer, we weren’t doing repos. The amount of reserves was 
enough that the movements in repo rates—which is a private market—happened, depending on 
conditions on a given day. That didn’t really affect the federal funds rate in a meaningful way. 
So I would view success in ample reserves as not only that we do not absolutely need repo 
operations oropen market operations, but even in if they were used, it would be infrequent. 
That gets me to really thinking about the options we’re talking about. So this isn’t 
absolutely necessary. It would be used very infrequently. However, I have lived through the 
past six weeks, and unexpected things can happen, things that nobody saw coming, and that did 
call into question whether our ample-reserves framework, as we designed it, was actually 
working—questions about, “Do we have effective control over the federal funds rate?” In a way, 

a panic broke out, especially on Tuesday morning. And given that as we move forward in the 
ample-reserves regime over the next several years, we are going to encounter changes in the 
structure of financial markets—changes that may change what is the appropriate level of reserves 
in unpredictable ways. 
We may, again, despite our best efforts, find ourselves in situations in which market 
stresses developed, and the federal funds rate was at risk of being pushed out of the range, like 
we saw in mid-September. That does argue, at least from my point of view, that we should be 
thinking seriously about a backstop that is available in a consistent and predictable way that can 
provide that benefit of interest rate control when the unexpected happens. Now, I would not see 
this as a facility or an approach that would be targeting repo rates directly, but it would really be 
there as a backstop to the ample-reserves regime and focused on federal funds rate control within 
the range. It does leave a lot of questions about counterparties, pricing, quantities, the issue of 
“How do you avoid stigma?” These are the issues that we have talked about in the summer that 
we are talking about again now, and I think we do need to think through all of those things. 
Now, one piece of good news here is that we are currently still operating repos, as 
Patricia pointed out, every single day, along with many, many other operations. And I think that 
that gives us some time as we transition from where we are today into the first quarter of next 
year where we actually, according to figure 19—I know I’m told that there should be error bands 
on these charts, but just taking the point estimates is—the first quarter of next year we will be 
operating in, at least for most of the quarter, the ample-reserves regime. And we can use that 
time to actually develop, along the lines that Patricia I think just mentioned, a transition or 
learning—more importantly, learning—about how our overnight repo operations would work in 
one of these future—maybe backstop— ways. So we could move the pricing up from currently 

at the interest on reserves up to at or slightly above the target range, change some of the other 
parameters to make it more of a backstop, and presumably it would only be utilized on specific 
days—end-of-month, end-of-quarter days—where there were large payment flows or other 
developments. 
So I think we’ll get that chance over the first few months of 2020 to learn more about 
these parameters and details about how that will work, and we should use that opportunity. And, 
again, I don’t see any need to make any specific decisions at this point, but I do think that we 
should, as a Committee, be prepared as we get through the end of the year and move into early 
next year to really use that as an opportunity to learn more about how, in the ample-reserves 
regime, to design a backstop repo facility, if we choose to do that. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also want to thank the staff for the memo and 
the briefing that lay out some of the options we have for conducting ongoing repo operations to 
support controlling the funds rate. Ensuring that the federal funds rate remains in the target 
range is important. Now, some of the volatility in the funds rate at year-end should be 
expected—and shouldn’t be viewed as a lack of interest rate control, any more now than it was 
under the pre-crisis operating framework. Missing the target repeatedly is cause for concern, and 
we should put mechanisms in place to prevent this. 
One option is to have the Desk do regular ongoing repo operations, setting a dollar 
volume that could be ramped up on a discretionary basis if needed. The other option is to have 
the standing repo facility setting a price somewhat above the top of the federal funds target 
range, which would serve as an automatic backstop that would help limit volatility. I agree with 
Vice Chair Williams that, given our experience in mid-September, I would prefer we explore 

setting up a standing repo facility. The Fed knew corporate tax payments and settlement of 
Treasury options would put upward pressure on money market rates, but the magnitude of the 
volatility in the rates in mid-September caught us by surprise. The repo operations were 
successful, but conducting them after the volatility emerged did not instill confidence. Regularly 
scheduled interventions by the Desk would help, but estimating the appropriate size of the 
operations needed to limit volatility may be complicated, especially around quarter-ends and 
settlement dates. 
I think a standing repo facility would likely be more effective by setting the price and 
allowing the quantity to vary automatically with market conditions. Of course, both methods 
involve the Federal Reserve intervening, but if one of the intentions of the ample-reserves regime 
was to avoid frequent interventions by the Desk to achieve interest rate control, the automatic 
backstop characteristic of a standing facility has some appeal, because it would likely mean the 
Desk would need to intervene only in exceptional circumstances, depending on the parameters 
that we set in the facility. 
Now, the facility does have some drawbacks: It would mean that the Fed would be 
playing a larger role in money markets in normal times, thereby crowding out private-sector 
intermediation in the repo market, and the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet would become more 
volatile. The take-up of the facility could be quite large at times of market stress or when a large 
firm faces a large liquidity need. Of course, the offsetting benefit is better interest rate control. 
But there’s also another potential benefit that I think we’re supposed to be talking about 
at a later meeting. If banks knew they could pledge eligible securities for reserves when needed 
with the Fed as counterparty, they might actually reduce their precautionary demand for reserves. 
If so, that would lower reserve levels and the size of our balance sheet, which might give us 

greater capacity for doing quantitative easing at the ELB, especially if the public’s concern about 
the size of our balance sheet places some limit on the usage of this tool. 
Of course, decisions would need to be made about this facility’s design, including the 
pricing, the set of eligible counterparties, and eligible collateral. A higher rate above the funds 
rate target would mean the facility would likely be used less but at a cost of less interest rate 
control. If you look back at September, if you had a facility with a rate 25 basis points above the 
top of the funds rate target range, you would probably likely have seen significant trades only in 
the days around September 17. So that might be a starting point for pricing to think about. To 
limit counterparty risk, you could start with maybe those firms that are eligible for the reverse 
repo program, and for collateral, you might want to restrict it to Treasury securities or perhaps 
add Ginnie Maes, which count as Level 1 high-quality liquid assets under Basel III. 
Further work is needed to nail down these design parameters. And, as Vice Chair 
Williams said, we’re going to learn a lot as we get through year-end and see what our experience 
is. As we do that, this might also be a good time to give serious consideration about what 
interest rate we should be using to communicate our policy stance. We last discussed this issue 
almost a year ago. The federal funds market is unlikely, in my view, to return to the robust 
market it once was. The overnight bank funding rate is one possibility for communicating our 
policy stance. But, if we do set up a standing repo facility, the Treasury repo rate is another 
possibility worth considering. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I see little advantage to following a strategy 
where we will routinely face challenges keeping the funds rate within our target range. Choosing 
an operating procedure that allows significant interest rate volatility has cost to market 

participants and their willingness to hold inventories of securities, raises questions about 
liquidity requirements, undermines our desire to move to SOFR, and can cause the Federal 
Reserve reputational damage. If we define ample reserves as the reserves necessary to avoid 
market interventions, including most end-of-quarter and tax payment dates, the Desk should 
continue purchases until we have built a sufficiently large buffer of reserves to minimize such 
disruptions. 
My first choice would be to continue growing Treasury bill purchases to reach a stock of 
reserves that is consistent with this definition of ample reserves. Over the past decade, we 
experienced almost no shortages of reserves until the past year, which suggests we can avoid 
shortages quite simply by holding more reserves. An additional benefit is that this sidesteps 
some of the difficult decisions regarding potential tradeoffs associated with the modest-scale 
repo operations and the standing repo facility. For example, with my preference for sufficiently 
ample reserves so that regular repo operations are not necessary, there is no concern about 
crowding out the private-sector repo market, and the problems associated with the various 
frictions in reserves going from primary dealers to others in need of additional reserves are 
mitigated. Although my preference would be to make available ample reserves so sufficient that 
we almost never needed to undertake emergency repo operations, surprises do occur—as the 
recent episode makes clear. Thus, we need to be prepared by having a “Plan B” ready to go. 
My second choice would be to have a standing repo facility, because it would operate as 
an automatic stabilizer whenever needed. One concern that I have with the memo is that, under 
its proposal, such a facility is restricted to primary dealers only. One lesson that we learned from 
the recent episode is that repos with primary dealers may have to overcome frictions in the 

system to get the reserves to the entities that need them. Thus, I would be in favor of expanding 
the set of counterparties to address such frictions. 
My least favorite option is the modest-scale repo proposal. I’m particularly worried 
about the suggested small-value operations during normal times. Although they might be 
effective in identifying glitches in the system, I am not sure that they would provide adequate 
information about the effectiveness of large-scale repo operations during a stress event. As we 
recently observed, our repo operations did not go as smoothly as one would have hoped, given 
the frictions that were not fully anticipated. 
In summary, I expect that if we expand our reserves sufficiently, the need for a standing 
facility is likely to be significantly reduced. As a result, I am not sure we need to put in place a 
standing facility now, although we should be gathering information and preparing the technical 
system required to activate such a facility in the future, if necessary, either because shocks are 
larger than we anticipate or because of political pushback against the size of our balance sheet. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am supportive, as others have said, of growing 
our reserve level, because we may have unwittingly stumbled onto the level of reserves at which 
we’re uncomfortably close to entering a corridor. That said, I am a little bit puzzled—we’re 
actually experiencing this at close to $1.5 trillion in reserves, and I am suspicious about the fact 
that regulation implicitly or explicitly may be hindering the flow of this liquidity as well. So it 
may not necessarily be a question of the absolute level of the reserves but some other frictions, as 
President Rosengren put it, that are inhibiting this market right now. 

That said, I am supportive of a standing repo facility. I think it’s a good idea. And such 
a facility would likely enhance rate control, and rate control should be our primary concern. 
Now, by control, in line with what others have said, I don’t mean absolute control. Occasional 
spikes in the funds rate should not be much of a concern, as long as these deviations are not large 
enough to, say, drive the weekly funds rate averages outside the target range. Before the crisis, 
rates often spiked at the end of reserve maintenance periods, and those episodes were, at that 
time, of little concern. 
I prefer the standing repo facility to regular Desk interventions, because the size of the 
necessary intervention will generally be uncertain. I also have to commend the Desk for their 
admirable performance in maintaining market confidence in our ability to control the funds rate. 
We’ve just gone around our District and met with the banking community, and I think the 
banking community in the District is uniform in expressing confidence in the Fed and 
particularly the Desk’s ability to effectively manage the federal funds rate. So I find it 
acceptable for repos to be carried out on a regular basis by the Desk, but my overall preference, 
again, is for a standing facility. I believe we are the only major central bank that does not have 
such a facility. And as others said, designing the standing repo facility will take considerable 
care, but it’s clearly a manageable undertaking. I mean, this is something we can do. 
There is a need for the rate on such a facility not to be so high as to engender stigma and 
only occasional use, but not so low as to displace intermediation by the private sector. Finding 
the appropriate spread may take some experimentation, as, again, others have said. Frequent use 
should minimize any stigma that could be associated with the facility. I also favor, as President 
Rosengren said, allowing banks to access the facility, because doing so would make the control 
of the funds rate more direct. I understand that allowing every bank to access the facility 

individually would be too tall an order. But we could allow institutions that directly or indirectly 
manage reserve balances, for example above some established threshold, to access the facility. 
That would allow smaller banks indirect access and larger banks direct access. As well, 
moral hazard considerations make individual caps desirable. Individual caps would also help 
ensure the continued viability of private overnight markets, as the facility would not be available 
to fill all the bank’s funding needs all the time. 
To sum up: My primary concern is funds rate control. With that in mind, I’m in favor of 
a standing repo facility that is open to banking institutions that manage a threshold level of assets 
and to setting rates that make using the facility a regular occurrence but that still allows for a 
vibrant, private overnight market. 
The last thing I want to say is, in meeting with my discount window team, they made an 
interesting observation that President Kashkari has been leading an effort to think about 
removing stigma in the discount window. And there’s a statement that I think is on the shelf, for 
reiterating our commitment to those facilities, and I would also include in that daylight overdraft 
facilities. If—and I would say, when—we implement a standing repo facility, assuming that’s 
the case, we might want to think about the communication that is not just about that facility, but 
all the facilities that the Federal Reserve provides. Because it still is a bit of a mystery that, 
particularly with something like daylight overdraft credit, that people aren’t accessing that, 
particularly the midtier to smaller institutions. And so I think just making a communication 
effort about all the facilities we have would be a useful step. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d like to also thank the staff for preparing this 
thoughtful background memo on repo operations. The Committee’s long-run monetary policy 

framework entails use of a floor system. We want reserves to be sufficiently ample to drive our 
policy rate near the floor of our target band for the effective federal funds rate. At the same time, 
we do not want reserves to be arbitrarily large. According to our 2014 normalization principles 
and plans, the Committee intends to hold no more securities than necessary to implement 
monetary policy efficiently and effectively. As recent experience has shown, estimating the size 
of this ample-reserves level is a challenging task. 
One approach to mitigating liquidity events in money markets is to expand the SOMA 
together with the buffer stock and then rely on discretionary OMOs to accommodate episodes of 
reserves scarcity. Another approach—and my preferred approach—entails replacing 
discretionary OMOs with the standing repo facility. This would be consistent with the best 
practices of other central banks. Establishing a standing repo facility would meet an 
international standard in central banking. We would also be consistent with our own practice of 
establishing interest rate control in part through the overnight reverse repo facility. In my view, 
a standing repo facility should include a broad set of counterparties including, at the very least, 
depository institutions and primary dealers and, at most, all the counterparties that presently have 
access to our overnight reverse repo facility. The set of eligible securities should be limited to 
high-quality liquid assets or possibly even to just Treasury securities. The lending rate should be 
set at or just above the top of our policy target range. 
I see two main benefits of a standing repo facility designed in this manner. First, unlike a 
discretionary operation that has to wait for evidence of a liquidity event to reveal itself as an 
interest rate spike, a standing facility would automatically accommodate the demand for reserves 
and provide at least a soft ceiling on repo rates. Second, a standing repo facility may induce the 
G-SIBs to substitute high-quality liquid assets for reserves in their resolution planning. This, in 

turn, would permit the Committee to drain reserves to a lower level than would otherwise be 
possible. That is, for any given IOER rate, the Committee would conduct monetary policy with 
a lower average level of reserves with enhanced interest rate control. This may give the 
Committee more policy space with respect to the balance sheet in the future and thus represents 
an important advantage of this approach, and in this I agree with President Mester. 
Let me now address some of the concerns raised in the memo. First, there’s a 
presumption that the facility could significantly disintermediate private lending. While some 
disintermediation is likely, the more obvious effect, to me, would be to truncate the upper tail of 
the distribution of contracted repo rates. That is, the facility might instead serve as a competitive 
threat for borrowers that simply caps the terms of trade in private arrangements. The memo 
states that “A standing repo facility represents a commitment to expand the Federal Reserve’s 
balance sheet ...” I think this may be misleading. 
The commitment to expand our balance sheet will be accomplished through additions to 
our SOMA in accordance with the Committee’s desire to operate a floor system. A standing 
repo facility is better thought of as providing a more elastic supply of reserves for the purpose of 
interest rate control. Discretionary open market operations work in the same manner. Moreover, 
I as explained earlier, there’s reason to believe that a standing repo facility would actually reduce 
the precautionary and regulatory demand for reserves. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. It’s a very interesting topic, a good discussion. As 
I listened to some of the early comments and think about my comments here, I was thinking, if I 
were going to put a title on my comments, it might be, “Why do I care about repo operations?” 
Let me try to answer that. [Laughter] Interest rate control is key for achieving our monetary 

policy goals. If the federal funds rate moves above the target range or if our choices about policy 
implementation lead to unnecessary volatility, financial conditions will be tighter than we intend, 
and we will risk falling short of our macroeconomic objectives. This is not just a Wall Street 
problem. It can have real consequences on Main Street. 
A large automaker told me that, as a result of the dislocations in the repo market, there 
was no demand for its commercial paper in the second half of September. Now, this ended up 
not being a big problem because the company happened to be ahead of its funding schedule for 
the year, but if its needs had been more urgent or if the market pressures had persisted, the 
automaker told me that their higher funding cost would have eventually been passed along to 
dealers and car buyers. That would have had consequences for real economic activity. 
Of course, in the long run, businesses could probably find ways to adjust to more volatile 
money market rates, but those adjustments could increase the cost of financial intermediation and 
put a drag on the economy. Now, that would affect our inference about what the neutral rate 
would be for monetary policy, too, having to offset that. So we do well to keep our focus on 
maintaining strong rate control and implementing policy efficiently and effectively. 
Now, for the second off-script comment—I almost asked this question but didn’t. What 
if, when we were thinking about what policy tool we were going to choose, instead of the federal 
funds rate target range, we decided on “Let’s set the IOER rate”? It’s an administered rate. We 
can hit that every—[laughter]. There’s a governance issue as to who gets to decide it. What if 
that wasn’t an issue? What if we just said, “The IOER rate is going to be 1¾,” whatever it would 
be right now? How would I think about money market rates? Why would I care about repo? 
If I’ve got a financial stability argument for money market rates, I guess I would pay 
attention to it, but everything that we’re talking about here is providing ample reserves—doing 

repos so we can hit our funds rate target. If I just had the IOER rate, I’m not quite sure what we 
would be asking the Desk to do except keep us informed about what people are thinking about it, 
things like that. I literally don’t know the answer to that. But if it caused more money market 
volatility, then we’d have to offset that. That would have an effect on economic activity and 
funding costs, and so we’d probably have a lower IOER rate. We’d have less capacity against 
the ELB, presumably, in order to offset that on a regular basis, so I think we have to figure this 
out. The staff memo provided an excellent analysis of how we can accomplish this goal, and I 
know that the Desk has been working very hard, and I appreciate your efforts. 
But, mainly, the memo reminded me of why I prefer an abundant-reserves regime. It’s 
simple, efficient, and effective. In contrast, while the repo operations described in the memo can 
strengthen control of the federal funds rate, they come with a whole lot of complexities. 
Discretionary operations require the Desk to make challenging judgment calls, continually, about 
how to calibrate price and quantity parameters as market conditions change. A standing facility 
would bring other tough issues. For example, how would the existence of the facility change 
incentives in financial markets? Might we solve the rate control issue at the cost of creating 
some other problem? 
Even a simple fundamental question of what rate the facility could charge has no easy 
answer. Too low a rate would draw lots of activity, give us a large “footprint” in the repo 
market, and perhaps even disrupt private intermediation. Yet if the rate is too high, the facility 
could become stigmatized and no one would use it, which would prevent it from controlling rates 
in the first place. Maybe there’s a way to split the difference here, but it seems pretty tricky to 
me. All these problems really come from the fact that repo operations are active management of 
the supply of reserves to achieve rate control. 

And we decided last January that we didn’t want to go that route. It is true that many 
other central banks have standing ceiling facilities, but financial systems around the world differ, 
and there’s no guarantee that what’s appropriate elsewhere will work well here. I think our 
primary goal should be to get more comfortably into the flat portion of the reserve demand 
curve. Where is that? We’ve emphasized that we’d learn more about the appropriate level of 
reserves during the normalization process. Well, we learned that the mid-September level is too 
low, and the early September level of reserves is probably too low as well, at least given where 
reserve demand is now. Remember that we’re talking about having to use complicated repo 
operations even at that level. 
So we are likely going to need to keep building reserves even further before active 
reserve management is no longer needed. In the meantime, we will need to do something to 
control rates. After all, we’re not planning to be sustainably back to even the early-September 
level until April. I would leave it up to the experts on the best way to construct repo operations 
to control rates until we get reserves back up to an efficient and effective level, but it is key that 
we clearly communicate we do not intend to use these operations indefinitely. 
Let me finish by reiterating a pretty basic point. We went through a lot of work to decide 
that, for rate control, we would rely on adjustments of administered rates and we would not use 
active reserve management. And in January, we made a public commitment to that operating 
regime. We have not learned anything in the meantime to change that conclusion. If anything, 
we see more evidence that it was right, so we should stick with that commitment. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 

MR. BARKIN. Thank you, and congratulations to the markets team. I think we pulled 
off the recent announcement on increasing reserves incredibly well, and I do believe that that’s 
going to address the vast majority of our operating risk as we go forward. I am sensitive, though, 
to one remaining risk: We have learned that market participants may not participate as we 
predict in times of liquidity stress. Increased reserves do reduce that risk, but they may not 
eliminate it. In thinking, then, about how we might respond to that risk, I’m drawn to a 
minimalist approach. I am not much concerned with volatility in repo per se, only to the extent it 
affects federal funds. And in the federal funds market itself, I am perfectly comfortable with 
variation within our target range and even with the occasional short-lived movements out of 
range of the magnitude we saw in a corridor system. 
The bigger the intervention, the bigger the effects will be on private-market behavior, 
which we need to be thoughtful about. If we strongly limit price variation in the repo market, for 
instance, with a frequently in-the-money widely accessible standing facility or aggressive 
discretionary interventions, we might also limit the market’s price differentiation according to 
counterparty risk, and we would encourage more short-term funding of securities portfolios than 
might be prudent. A more limited intervention—say, a standing facility that is mostly “out of the 
money” and is accessible only to holders of reserves, or, alternatively, less aggressive 
discretionary intervention—would have less incentive effect and might achieve adequate control 
of the federal funds rate, given that I’m fairly tolerant of volatility in that market. 
Of course, a less frequently used standing facility could be more subject to stigma, which 
would further damp its effectiveness. So I’m also interested in exploring alternative approaches. 
I applaud what you’ve done with the foreign repo pool and hope there are other opportunities to 
reduce or manage our nonreserve liabilities, which I see as unhelpfully commingled in our 

balance sheet and reserve management. I am also interested in understanding better the potential 
to evolve our stance toward liquidity supervision or to adopt tiered pricing to reduce incentives 
to hold excess reserves or to communicate more comfort with somewhat more federal funds rate 
volatility. Rather than creating additional tools to fix the market when it doesn’t behave as 
expected, perhaps we can also take steps to encourage the expected behavior. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. And I’d like to begin by thanking Vice 
Chair and President Williams for his leadership and his team in New York for all their fine 
efforts in navigating the challenging conditions in the repo markets in these past six weeks and to 
second President Barkin in his remarks regarding the recent meetings that we had and decisions 
that we made between meetings. I think that was very well conceived and executed. And I 
would also like to thank the staff today for the excellent memo on options for a standing facility. 
I am going to devote most of my remarks to the standing facility. I’ll say a little bit about the 
backstop. 
Now, in preparing these remarks, I went back and reviewed the remarks that I delivered 
at our June meeting when we previously discussed this topic. And as I reread them, I realized I 
have not changed my mind—and, indeed, if anything, recent events have reinforced my 
inclination. So I will begin by highlighting the relevant passages. There are really two models 
for a standing facility—one that would operate with primary dealers and be focused on repo 
markets and another facility that would also include banks—that could be focused on funds rate 
control and the demand for reserves. And I realize this is not decisional today, nor was it in 
June, but if we were going to discuss those options, I would personally prioritize a standing 

facility, including banks as counterparties, with the potential benefit of reducing demand for 
reserves and enhanced control of the funds rate. 
A couple of reasons for this. First, the Committee, of course, currently sets the policy 
rate decision with regard to the federal funds rate, so that, to me, seems like a natural first 
priority. Now, it’s important that other money market rates and repo rates be in alignment with 
our funds rate decisions, but repo rates go up and down for a variety of reasons, and I, for one, 
would not prioritize eliminating spikes in repo rates. Importantly, I think a facility including 
banks—if we went down this road, would keep the Federal Reserve’s role in financial markets 
more circumscribed than a broader facility, so I continue to believe that. 
If we were to set up a standing facility, I think it would be very important to set the stop-
out rate at the appropriate level—and many of you have discussed that—and, certainly, at the top 
of our desired range and potentially above that. As many have said, in an ample-reserves 
regime, by definition, we should not be intervening frequently and in large size. Our current 
operations are meant to bridge the gulf between where we are now and where we want to get to 
by the middle of next year, and thus far, the stop-out rates have been set at or close to the IOER. 
Not surprisingly, at this rate, many of our operations are well subscribed, although not on every 
day. That is probably necessary now, but I do believe that any permanent facility should only be 
in the money when the spikes in repo rates would threaten to pull the funds rate above the top of 
our range. 
Finally, and I think this is also amplifying other comments that we have made, while we 
and myself often refer to “the” repo market for GC collateral, as figure 1 on page 8 of the memo 
vividly illustrates and figures 3 and 4 on page 2 of the handout vividly illustrate, there are at least 
two GC repo markets, and they are very different. We transact in the triparty market with an 

elite group of primary dealers, most of whom are subsidiaries of the big holding companies that 
we regulate. The other market is actually much larger. 
My nominee for acronym of the week is “FICC DVP.” I’m embarrassed to say that I’ve 
spent 60 years on this earth, and I had no idea what that was. You can call that FICC DVP, and 
it is the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation Delivery versus Payment market. It systematically 
clears at higher rates in those spreads to the funds rate, and presumably it always has and always 
will. Now, if I were still teaching Macro 101, my students would ask, “How can this be, since 
these are riskless trades backed by Treasury collateral with a haircut?” And I will admit that I 
would’ve been stumped for an answer, before September. But after some study and discussion 
with folks, including many in this room, it now seems crystal clear that, although GC repo may 
not expose the lender ultimately to credit risk, it apparently does expose even sophisticated 
lenders to counterparty risk, which I interpret to mean the cost and uncertainties that lenders 
incur to claim collateral to settle the default of the borrower. 
The point is that counterparties in the FICC DVP market are systematically riskier 
counterparties, as is evident in the fact that they regularly have to pay higher rates to borrow. So 
once we acknowledge this, it’s very hard for me to see why it would make sense for us ever to 
consider doing anything more than the minimum that we need to do to keep the funds rate or the 
OBFR rate in the target range that the FOMC sets. And I would not find it persuasive over the 
long run to cap repo volatility beyond what is necessary for funds rate control. Thank you, Chair 
Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 

MR. KAPLAN. Thank you Chair Powell, and thank you to the markets team for doing 
an outstanding job in—I guess an understatement—an intense period in which you’ve been 
under a lot of pressure, and so I’m very sympathetic and appreciate all the work you’ve done. 
Just on the questions you’ve asked, let me just say, my tolerance for the federal funds rate 
outside the range is low. I think it’s critical that, with confidence, we can set the federal funds 
rate within the range. As I’ve said before, I think it’s critical that we act preemptively versus 
reactively. And “preemptively” means, I don’t think it’s good for the Federal Reserve to be seen 
to be constantly in motion and taking actions to tamp down this volatility. And I think Charlie 
mentioned it. Interestingly the banks, I’ve noticed, are pretty sanguine about what’s happened. 
The people who have been a little less sanguine I’ve talked to are the companies that issue 
commercial paper, and this has created some ripples through the commercial paper market. And 
it’s just reinforced to me that, in weighing these tradeoffs, I’d want to take steps to be preemptive 
and err on the side of, with confidence, being able to set this rate. 
In that context, I agree with comments that have been made that, ideally, we would build 
reserves as we are doing, and maybe even revisit whether we have to do a little bit more to build 
reserves. But if we don’t have confidence with that, I would support doing a standing repo 
facility. My own two cents: We will have to have more discussion about whether it’s primary 
dealers as counterparties versus a broader set of banks, and I know you all will have views on 
that. 
My own view has been that maybe primary dealers should be sufficient, but I could see 
arguments against that. In terms of the rate, many have commented. I’d want to give you the 
flexibility to adjust it. We’ve been thinking that it could be within 5 basis points of the upper 
end of the federal funds rate range. That is one of these things that, on the Desk, you will have to 

manage in order to make it a truly backstop facility that comes into play in stress periods, as 
opposed to having us have a permanent “footprint” in the repo market. I would be supportive of 
the collateral being Treasury securities only, not other collateral. And I could throw out a 
number, but I think it should be in sufficient size that you are satisfied that it would take up what 
we need to take up. 
Lastly, we mentioned this before—I do think, while we are doing all of this, and we are 
growing reserves and anticipating whether we need to do a standing repo facility, we should 
continue to look at potential changes to the regulatory regime that will make reserves and short-
term Treasury securities more fungible than they are today. And I hope we will continue to take 
a look at that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The decision to either use discretionary repo 
operations or establish a standing repo facility depends largely, in my view, on the underlying 
cause of the mid-September volatility. Did our reserve balances simply decline beyond the point 
of abundance, or does last month’s episode reflect a deeper issue of money market functioning? 
If the reserve runoff process simply advanced to the point of threatening reserve abundance last 
month, then the volatility in money markets should prove transitory once reserve balances are 
replenished. We should be sure that the current plan to return reserves to early September levels 
will accommodate swings in nonreserve liabilities. 
In reviewing the plan for transitioning to an ample-reserves regime, the staff analysis 
highlighted that it would be important to include an allowance for uncertainty in the selection of 
a minimum operating level of reserves. As part of that analysis, the proposed allowance for that 
was $190 billion. The reserve level announced in the current plan to maintain, over time, ample-

reserves balances at or above the level that prevailed in early September should include that 
allowance for uncertainty. 
While I am not looking to have an unnecessarily large balance sheet, reserve abundance 
is necessary for interest rate control in our floor-type system. If demand for our repo offerings 
remains persistently high and market rates remain volatile after transitioning to a higher level of 
reserves, then we may need to revisit multiple facets of our operating procedure. In the coming 
months, both the demand for our repo offerings as well as the dispersion across money market 
rates will be informative. A standing repo facility may well be necessary in order to implement 
and transmit monetary policy effectively, should persistent rate dispersion emerge. But I think 
that it’s too soon to make that decision, at our current degree of understanding of recent events. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. I, too, want to thank the Desk and Vice Chair Williams 
for helping us navigate the dislocation in the repo market. The Committee has demonstrated 
resolve to address the stress in repo markets by acting decisively to supply ample reserves and 
reestablish control over the federal funds rate. 
Nonetheless, even with our announcement and operations, the dispersion in traded rates 
widened over the September quarter-end and on the mid-October Treasury auction settlement 
date, and market contacts remain focused on mid-December and year-end. As President George 
noted, before knowing the right answer, we need to better understand the cause. And I, for one, 
don’t yet understand the dynamics in short-term money markets sufficiently to feel confident that 
we won’t see renewed volatility or the need to step in again at scale. So I hope the Committee 
will continue studying this market carefully before settling on the right answer. 

There seem to have been three forces at work that combined to produce the surprisingly 
wide spreads seen in late September. Reserves have clearly fallen below demand, Treasury 
security issuance is rising to historically elevated levels, and there are some frictions in the pipes. 
It’s important to understand the relative contributions of each of these factors, in order to 
understand whether our current policy response is likely to prove sufficient. Our ongoing 
commitment to adjust supply in order to ensure reserves are truly ample should address any 
shortfall in relation to demand associated with the first two forces. With regard to the frictions, 
it’s important to understand whether these are associated with changes in business models, risk-
management practices, or regulatory requirements in order to decide what type of policy 
response might be appropriate. 
The noticeable differences among the large dealer banks in their practices regarding 
reserve holdings and their responses to the widening of repo market spreads suggest that the 
preference for reserves in HQLA holdings is not a monotonic function of the requirements such 
as the LCR, the G-SIB surcharge, or the leverage ratio. Staff discussions with several of the key 
dealer banks reinforced this finding. 
Instead, as is emphasized in the report on reserve conditions memo circulated to research 
directors, firms’ risk management appears to be determining the degree of monetization risk that 
each firm chooses to take on. Risk-management practices appear to reflect a low perceived cost 
of holding a reserve buffer as self-insurance to meet volatile payments relative to being highly 
reluctant to use any Federal Reserve credit. Despite the efforts of the SCRM and supervisory 
staff to reduce discount window stigma, internal firm scrutiny and the Fed’s required disclosures 
appear to be important ongoing impediments. Although some large firms occasionally use 
intraday credit, this usage is limited, compared with pre-crisis, in part because of fears that 

daylight credit could turn into an overnight discount window loan, which is discouraged by 
senior management and the institutions’ boards. 
Moreover, the internal risk limits and governance processes appear to have some inertia. 
So the dealers’ incentives to step in when spreads widen because of perceived idiosyncratic 
short-lived factors are somewhat muffled by risk limits that appear to be changed only at longer 
horizons in response to more sustained changes in the opportunity set. With regard to regulation, 
I think we should continue to assess whether there are, in fact, some areas of guidance in which 
we can smooth those frictions. 
More broadly, I agree with Presidents Rosengren and Evans that the first and primary 
goal should continue to be to supply genuinely ample reserves. Beyond that, it is hard to tell 
how effective a standing repo facility will prove to be as compared with as-needed repo 
operations. In principle, I can support the establishment of a standing repo facility, but, as 
President George observed, not until we understand more about what “ample reserves” 
constitute. 
Of the options sketched by the staff, my initial inclination would be to maintain 
operations on a sufficient scale and frequency to give the Desk the ability to discern emerging 
pressures in money markets and allow the Committee more time to learn what level of reserves 
will be truly ample relative to demand, as well as what frictions may be resulting in distributional 
inefficiencies. 
In the medium term, if the Committee chooses to establish a standing fixed-rate repo 
facility to provide a backstop, there are some important tradeoffs between the degree to which 
that facility overcomes stigma and is readily accessed, on the one hand, and the Federal 
Reserve’s “footprint” in the market, on the other. If the standing facility rate is set at a low 

spread over money market rates, take-up could be high and broad based, which would limit 
concerns about stigma but at the expense of disintermediating a greater share of private-sector 
activity. Conversely, if it’s set at a high spread over money market rates, take-up will be low, on 
average—limiting the Federal Reserve’s “footprint,” but running the risk of stigma. Whether 
there’s a “sweet spot” that achieves stigma-free moderate take-up that enables the facility to 
provide a useful ceiling on rates, while also limiting our disintermediation of private-sector 
activity, is an open question. On balance, I would prefer a relatively small “footprint” in the 
course of normal conditions. 
There are also important questions regarding counterparties that were discussed 
previously. To the extent that the reason for establishing a facility was to limit the volatility of 
the federal funds rate, this is best accomplished through a bank-focused facility, whereas a 
facility focused on primary dealers would work only indirectly to influence unsecured rates. 
For me, the guiding principle should be establishing effective rate control and broader 
transmission by ensuring that reserves are ample. Although I am open minded about whether we 
might ultimately establish a standing ceiling facility, I’d prefer to delay the decision on that until 
after we have fully restored the necessary level of reserves—which might mean the middle of 
next year—and better understand the forces at work. In the meantime, I support maintaining 
discretionary operations, which don’t suffer from stigma. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Chair Powell. Like others, I’d like to thank the staff for all 
of the work that you’ve done in the intermeeting period and for putting together the materials for 
this discussion on such short notice. It was very helpful. The questions that have been raised are 
both very timely and very time sensitive. And I’ll be brief and start by saying that I’m skeptical 

that a standing repo facility is a good long-term solution to rate control-related issues. This is 
mainly because I think it will be difficult to employ any type of backstop facility without 
encountering the same stigma issues that many have noted before me that the discount window 
currently faces. 
In addition, we could run the risk that it would be interpreted by markets as a sign of a 
greater and deeper concern than what we are communicating. Instead, I would prefer that we 
rely on the ample-reserves framework that we announced last January. I’d like to see us 
continuing to increase the size of our balance sheet gradually until we again feel reasonably 
confident that the supply of reserves is sufficient to ensure good control over short-term funding 
rates. It will take us several months, at least, to get to that point and, to me, it seems likely that 
the risk of money market pressures will remain elevated through next year’s tax-filing season. 
Because of that, I think we should consider communicating to the public that we intend to 
continue with discretionary overnight and term repo operations, at least through the second 
quarter of next year. Since we know that short-term funding pressures are likely to occur in that 
period, it may reassure markets to have a plan communicated in advance. We have learned quite 
a bit from the money market developments over the past several months. For one, we’ve learned 
that the survey-based estimates of banks’ lowest comfortable level of reserves when totaled are 
not an accurate depiction of the true level of reserves that would mitigate the risk of funding 
pressures. 
Therefore, I’d like to see the staff undertake further research into the factors driving 
demand for reserves as well as distributional frictions in money markets, taking on board all of 
the lessons learned from the money market developments over the past several months. But I’d 
also like to see this research include an analysis of how changes in financial supervision and 

regulation over the past decade have affected money market dynamics. Before making any 
decisions about how to structure our repo market operations over the longer term, I think it’s 
important that we have a deeper understanding of these issues, especially those related to 
regulatory influences. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thanks to all who worked to settle the situation 
and those who produced these helpful memos. 
In our long-run framework discussion at the November 2018 meeting, I expressed my 
desire to adopt an ample-reserves framework that would be robust to a potential return to the 
effective lower bound and minimize the risks to monetary control and minimize risks to the 
perception of monetary control. At that time, I highlighted my discomfort with the myriad 
uncertainties related to the demand for reserves and operational details that would accompany a 
return to a scarce-reserves regime. 
Reading the background memo prepared for this meeting only magnifies my discomfort, 
as it underscores the complexity and the magnitude of the challenges to monetary control when 
reserves are scarce, which they appear to be now. Plainly stated, I have little tolerance for taking 
on significant risk to monetary control, but my preferred risk mitigator is the maintenance of 
sufficiently ample reserves and not the introduction of a standing repo facility. 
For me, as has been stated by many today, “ample reserves” means a large enough level 
of reserves that, during normal or non-crisis times, we can rely on administered rates as the 
primary policy tools and not engage in temporary open market operations. To be sure, this 
definition of “ample” is imprecise. But it can be operationalized by building in a sizable buffer. 

And my approach to the buffer would be to err on the side of being too big rather than attempt to 
hit an estimated minimum amount. 
Now, maybe I’m really standing with President Evans in feeling more comfort with 
abundant reserves. And I have to say, I have heard “abundant” reserves, “sufficiently ample” 
reserves [laughter], “genuinely ample” reserves—many ways to really try to say “more” reserves 
[laughter], and I have to support that. Implicit in this preference is my assessment that the 
benefits of holding sufficiently ample reserves outweigh any associated costs. 
So the question then becomes, in the interest of resilience, what is the strategy for 
operational readiness in times of money market stress? Like Governor Brainard, I favor the use 
of small to modest-sized operations to maintain readiness in order to minimize any 
disintermediation of the private sector and preserve operational flexibility. When we achieve 
and maintain sufficiently ample reserves, there should be little to no need to calibrate these 
operations to market conditions, which, should market stress arise, I am confident in the Desk’s 
ability to minimize variability of the federal funds rate. Notice I said “minimize” and not 
“eliminate” variability. Athough I do not wish to take on significant ongoing risk to monetary 
control, I do not perceive volatility within the range or even the occasional breach of the target 
range to be a problem. 
Historically, the effective federal funds rate would fluctuate a bit around this point target 
on a daily basis, and this did not cause a problem with respect to monetary policy transmission. 
Big picture, the market has now learned how we will respond to these kinds of market stresses. 
This is important, because confidence that we will take action to minimize deviations from target 
is an important component of monetary control, so I think we are well on our way in this regard. 

While it was not the subject of the memo, I will end with an observation and a question 
on a topic raised by President Mester. Last fall, we had a long discussion about alternative 
policy rates. We had the effective federal funds rate, the overnight bank funds rate, and secured 
rates like SOFR, and today President Evans added IOER. Many participants, myself among 
them, expressed concerns about the risks of the continued use of the effective funds rate as a 
policy rate, given how small the federal funds market is and how idiosyncratic it can be. My 
question is, would a move to a policy rate that is more representative of overnight market rates 
help mitigate the types of risks to monetary control we are concerned about, and wrestling with, 
today? Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just one quick addition, before starting on the 
repo rates. There was a point that I’d wanted to make on the toolkit that I inadvertently didn’t 
before. Both President George and President Bullard raised the potential of the yield curve 
control approach being in tension with, or possibly abrogating, the Treasury–Federal Reserve 
Accord. I, of all people, would certainly not want to do anything that would impinge the 
authority of that accord, a framed copy of which is stitched into a sampler over the headboard in 
our bedroom. [Laughter] But I don’t think there is any necessary tension at all. I mean, the last 
time that the Federal Reserve, as a practical matter, engaged in serious yield curve control was 
during and immediately after World War II, where, basically at the instruction of the Treasury, in 
order to support the national goal of victory in the war, the Federal Reserve pegged interest rates 
at levels that were set by the Treasury. 
What the Accord said is, that will not be the case. It didn’t say that yield curve control 
was something that was an inappropriate tool for the Fed as long as the decisions that are made 

about it are made here. Then it’s up to the Treasury to decide, well, what will its issuance be in 
light of Federal Reserve policy with respect to yield curve control? That’s totally in accordance 
with the Accord. I don’t think there is any tension there at all. So that was the only point that I 
wanted to make, partly for the minutes and partly for the ongoing discussion. Okay. 
MR. BARKIN. And thank you for putting in that thing about your sampler into the 
transcripts. [Laughter] 
MR. QUARLES. Repo. So, again, the memo is very interesting, very useful, and the 
work that the New York Reserve Bank has been doing has been both excellent and effective, and 
everyone deserves congratulations for that. 
The memo identifies two options for repo operations and rate control. One, regular repo 
operations up to $20 billion to maintain a high level of readiness. Two, the setup of a standing 
repo facility. What both of those options effectively imply is that we may not be confident that 
increasing the size of the balance sheet alone would be sufficient to solve the problem that we 
have been facing. 
In light of our uncertainty over what exactly is driving the demand for reserves, we’ll 
have to maintain a level of operational readiness, no matter what the level of reserves. So with 
all of that in mind, as I have said before, I find the idea of a standing facility appealing and 
maybe, really, not even materially as a mechanism to provide better rate control, but as an 
instrument to decrease the demand for reserves and, therefore, to reduce pressure to increase the 
size of the balance sheet over time. 
Such a facility could be helpful in dealing with periods of stress but would also likely 
lower the overall level of demand for reserves in nonstress time by guaranteeing the 
convertibility of Treasury securities. In that regard, it might be useful just to review how I’d see 

the relationship between a potential standing repo facility and the effect of our bank regulatory 
framework and supervisory practices on the question. Not all banks, but many banks have told 
us that a significant element of the market frictions that we saw in September was the instruction 
that they have received from Fed supervisors to prefer reserves over Treasury securities in the 
composition of their high-quality liquid assets. 
Our supervisory staff insist, in turn, that they do not have such a preference, have never 
told the banks to have such a preference, and point to the facts that Governor Brainard has 
cited—that some banks, in fact, do not hold a particularly large percentage of their HQLA in 
reserves. Both camps appear to be quite sincere and quite vehement. I think the way one 
squares the circle is by looking at the operation of the internal stress liquidity test that we require 
the banks to run. So we have an overall liquidity regulation that requires the banks to hold a 
minimum amount of liquid assets. But, quite sensibly, we also require the banks to run an 
analysis of how those liquid assets—which could be Treasury securities, reserves, or, after the 
passage of a law in the summer, municipal bonds—will perform under stress. 
Now, in the world as it currently stands, there is a modest but measurable difference in 
the liquidity and usability of reserves versus Treasury securities in extreme stress. Treasury 
securities settle a day later. There may be problems of severe disruptions to markets and to the 
economy. And so, required to perform this stress analysis, many banks conclude that they 
should keep very high levels of reserves. The supervisors say, “We didn’t tell them that. They 
came to their own conclusion.” The banks say, “We came to that conclusion because of the way 
you require that we run our stress-testing practices. It’s a direct result of the supervisory 
framework.” 

And an appropriately designed standing repo facility would cut through that. By telling 
the banks that, in times of stress, they would be able to immediately monetize their Treasury 
holdings with the Federal Reserve as the counterparty, a liquidity stress test would no longer 
create an incentive to hold excessively high levels of reserves during peacetime. So the benefit 
of the facility, in my mind, is less in its usefulness for rate control during normal times—as Vice 
Chairman Williams and a number of others have pointed out, in an ample-reserves regime you 
don’t really need a repo facility—or even, in its ultimate use, under any circumstances at all. But 
the confidence that, at some point in the future, it could be used would likely materially reduce 
banks’ immediate demand for reserves. Now, in my utopia, that would mean that at some point 
in the future we could again hold the balance sheet steady and allow it to decline further as a 
percentage of GDP, a desire that has been reinforced by today’s brief drive-by glimpse of 
infrastructure bonds. [Laughter] 
But even if the Committee is not persuaded that that’s a worthy goal, we should all be 
interested in ensuring the ampleness of our reserves regime not only by increasing the supply of 
reserves, but also in reducing the demand for them, if that can be sensibly done—especially in a 
world in which we can’t be sure that increasing the supply, whether in the amount we’ve 
announced or in any amount at all, will fully address the problem, given some of the frictions 
that we have seen and have been further described to us in this market. 
That view then affects how I would think about the design of the facility. Again, as I 
have said before, I think in designing such a facility, therefore, it would be advantageous to not 
just include banks, as Governor Clarida suggested, but to limit our counterparties to banks. Our 
target remains the federal funds rate. Our focus should be on maintaining the credibility of that 
target perhaps at the acceptance of slightly more volatility in the broader repo market. In my 

view, the primary aim of this facility would be to affect the price of reserves to banks and not to 
manipulate the broader repo market. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think one thing that has been clear to me 
over the past couple of months is, we don’t know how many dollars of reserves are going to be 
needed to fulfill our ample-reserves regime. There’s a lot of uncertainty. I thought the 
discussion about the survey and how banks say one thing and then they do something different—
I think that’s really informative of how little we really know and how little confidence we should 
have in what we know. 
And, faced with the two alternatives, I’d prefer a ceiling facility. I would price it at the 
top end of the federal funds rate target range. I would not have a penalty rate. We are the source 
of our stigma on the discount window, and we need to police ourselves from stigmatizing any 
new facility. We want banks to use it. I think the more we talk about it as a backup, never to be 
used, the more likely we are going to have a path of stigma once again. And if we are going to 
go down the path of stigma, then I would rather have ad hoc interventions than to stigmatize the 
facility. I think that is the worst of all scenarios. I would encourage it to have a wide range of 
counterparties—at least all banks if not all banks and primary dealers. As Governor Quarles has 
said, if it’s credible and it’s not stigmatized, I think it may lead to a reduction in the demand for 
reserves. It’ll lead to a reduction in the preference for reserves over Treasury securities, and I 
think that’s a good thing from a policy perspective. 
Others have mentioned that—we talked about this a year ago—we may need to transition 
away from the federal funds rate at some point in the future. I think the existence of the ceiling 
facility will help us if we eventually transition away from the federal funds rate. So that’s a nice 

down payment there. To me—we’ve talked about this today—what do we mean by “ample”? I 
think the ceiling facility can help us be precise in defining what we mean by “ample.” We can 
define “ex ante”: We expect it to be used monthly this many billion dollars, or quarterly this 
many billion dollars. If it’s used less than that, we’ve got too many reserves, and we’re beyond 
ample. If it’s used more than that, we’re not quite at ample. That information can actually help 
us tune the size of our balance sheet to achieve “ample” over a range of conditions. So I think 
that’s informative. 
Regarding the discount window itself—this is not the primary purpose of the ceiling 
facility, but one of the observations in our work over the past couple of years is, it is massively 
stigmatized. This would be a big down payment. The purpose of this is not lender-of-last-resort, 
but it would improve our liquidity provision capability as an institution, taking into account how 
broken the discount window is. It is not a perfect substitute, because it would only be for high-
quality collateral. But we would be far better off than we are today with this broken window. So 
I think the ceiling facility has that side benefit as well. 
The last thing I would say is, there has been commentary today that I’m struggling with, 
about the idea that we don’t want to disintermediate the private sector by having a facility that’s 
used all the time. But if the alternative, as some people are advocating for, is just a much larger 
balance sheet in all states of the economy, isn’t that also disintermediating the private sector, if 
you permanently have this bigger “footprint”? What’s the advantage of having a big 
“footprint”—a big balance sheet—versus a smaller balance sheet, in which case you have a 
window that is actively used? I don’t think the disintermediation is worse by having a ceiling 
that is actively used. I think the disintermediation is worse by having a permanently larger 
balance sheet with a permanently bigger “footprint” in financial markets. Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And let me just echo everyone else’s comments to 
thank the staff, the New York Desk, and Vice Chair Williams for the work. I have to say this, 
because my group asked me to—I was at a Community Advisory Council luncheon and meeting, 
and they made a special motion to applaud the New York Fed, in particular, and the Desk for 
their great work. And two things were remarkable: one, that at a CAC, Community Advisory 
Council, we were talking about the repo market; and, two, that they thought we had done an 
exceptional job. And I think it was really about the idea that we stepped in, did everything the 
way that people thought we should, and communicated effectively. So, hats off. 
With that said, the recent dislocations, praise aside, in funding markets have reaffirmed 
my view that maintaining generally tight control of our primary monetary policy tool is crucial, 
and failure to keep the federal funds rate within the target range, even for a brief period, can be 
quite disruptive. So ongoing difficulties in being able to do that—keeping the rate stable or 
where we want it—has the potential to erode confidence in our ability to smoothly implement 
monetary policy. And here, just because of some of the remarks that have been made, you know, 
if you look back in history, we have reached it when we had a scarce-reserves regime, and we’re 
relatively new in exercising this ample-reserves regime as we reduce the balance sheet. So I 
think, certainly, for now, keeping the funds rate trading in its range is important. And then we 
might be able to experience some breaches temporarily down the road, but not right now. 
So then, what is the best way forward? And I backed up from this and said, “Well, you 
know, the way I think of it is like a peak load problem”—and this might be because I moved to 
California right when we were having the energy crisis. [Laughter] And this was what I worked 
on for the longest time. 

One approach, if you are trying to solve a peak load problem, is to, in this case, issue 
sufficient reserves to keep the federal funds rate within the target range during normal situations, 
where “normal” is defined as the average demand for reserves through the surveys and other 
things. And so then the demand for reserves spikes or these peak loads could be addressed with 
fairly regular open market operations, depending on how many there are. And you could do this 
on an ad hoc basis, or you could do it by establishing a standing repo facility with attractive 
pricing so that it becomes this backstop. But, by design, this approach would involve a more 
substantial “footprint” in financial markets, as we would be the backstop for market pricing. 
I think President Kashkari has raised an important point, but I don’t personally have 
enough information to know whether this disintermediation of the larger balance sheet is worse 
than the disintermediation of a variety of different relationships. And—something that President 
Mester asked a question earlier about—why aren’t they moving to the repo market when the 
rates are higher? And the answer was, because they don’t want to lose the relationships they 
have. Well, if we have a standing facility and they know they can depend on that, they are going 
to probably lose those relationships. And so I don’t know what the tradeoffs are, but I think 
that’s useful further study. 
Alternatively, to solve this peak load problem, we could adopt a regime with abundant 
reserves, and I have added yet another thing—I have “abundant” not only italicized, but it’s 
underlined. So that’s ample, abundant—and abundant reserves that would ensure the funds rate 
would remain within the range even during the peak times when demand is high. And, under 
this regime, only very infrequent, sporadic market interventions would be needed to handle 
episodes of extreme demand. And this approach would require a larger balance sheet but only a 
small-value presence in repo markets to maintain operational readiness. 

While either of these approaches would solidify our policy rate control, they present a 
tradeoff between a larger balance sheet and a greater “footprint” in financial markets. And my 
impression is that we have been more actively discussing and concerned about the optics of a 
large balance sheet than by the real or perceived cost of acquiring a larger “footprint” in financial 
markets. One of the things I’d like to have more thought about before we become “decisional” 
is, just what are we talking about in terms of these tradeoffs? What relationships will we be 
replacing? Will it be commercial paper? Will it be other types of things? I don’t actually 
understand those fully, so I share concerns raised by others around here and in the background 
memo that having a permanent standing facility could adversely distort the incentives faced by 
market participants. 
So, overall, I come down on the side of an abundant-reserves regime, which is defined as 
ample enough to deal with these peaks with only very infrequent open market operations. Our 
discussions last year pointed out that an attractive feature of our floor system was its simplicity. 
There was no need for daily market interventions, no need to set up special facilities, and this 
system has the additional benefit of not further distorting market dynamics, which could 
contribute to financial fragility. And this I just want to underscore: It’s not just about 
disintermediation and crowding out—it’s actually, what we really want to do is foster financial 
resiliency. And so I don’t know what the tradeoffs there are, in terms of financial fragility. 
Under either approach, I think it will be important to further examine options to do this 
fostering greater resiliency; and to learn more, as President George and Governor Brainard said, 
about what really went on, and how much this will change, and how much a standing facility 
would change anything that we are experiencing. And there I just don’t think we have enough 
information to become decisional on this. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. A few comments from me. Let me start by saying, by 
agreeing, complimenting our New York colleagues for reacting with a plan that was aggressive 
and that succeeded in putting us in a good place. We did it on an intermeeting basis, and we 
thought there were risks that it might be seen as an emergency measure and things like that or 
somehow conflated with policy. I think we avoided all of that, and I want to thank you again for 
moving at warp speed and getting that done. Of course, much of the fun still lies ahead, but, 
nonetheless, great job. 
As many have noted, we say that “ample reserves” means that we will control the federal 
funds rate without active management of reserves. One way to think about it is three things. 
First, our focus should be squarely on the federal funds rate. Movements in repo rates matter in 
our current regime only to the extent that they interfere in important ways with the conduct of 
monetary policy—admitting, though, that there is the point that it would make it easier to move 
to a non-reserve-based target rate in the future. 
Second, reserves are below the desired level and need to be increased. We’ve got a good 
plan for that, and we’ll learn much more about market functioning as we raise the level of 
reserves. 
Third, frequent operations, even if small, are, by definition, not consistent with ample 
reserves. Of course, “frequent” is in the eye of the beholder. But the first order of business 
needs to be to raise the level of reserves to the point where we can have a better informed 
discussion of the appropriate level of frequency. 
I am absolutely open to the idea of creating a standing repo facility. But, for now, given 
our commitment to an ample-reserves framework, which doesn’t contemplate active 

management of reserves, the need for that facility is not obvious to me, as of today. I see plenty 
of plausible reasons that may prove out over time, but I would want to see them do so. 
In terms of options, we can assure that usage is infrequent by pricing the facility well 
above market, which brings the stigma problem into focus and renders the facility perhaps not so 
useful. On the other hand, if we price a standing a facility close to the market to encourage use 
and dispel stigma, we risk assuming responsibility for the repo market. We’ll be well down the 
road, if we do that, to targeting a repo rate instead of a federal funds rate. That would mark a 
major change in how we interact with this large, diverse private market and how we implement 
monetary policy, and we just would need to think that through very carefully before acting. 
There might also be a middle ground, in which the facility is expected to be used mostly on 
quarter-ends and tax days. 
As for the specific questions, I have some tolerance for funds rate movements within the 
range and for allowing the funds rate to occasionally move outside the range for short periods, 
especially when associated with easily identifiable technical events. And I am committed to 
raising reserves to a level that will allow us to exert control of the rate through our use of 
administered rates. 
Echoing a number of others around the table, it seems wise to take our time in deciding 
about this facility. We will learn many things in coming months, including the extent to which 
modest changes to things like our daylight overdraft policy or the foreign repo pool or some 
modest tinkering with capital requirements—the way we calculate them, not their level—could 
meaningfully affect reserve demand, whether they could meaningfully affect reserve demand, 
without sacrificing safety and soundness or financial stability. Any of that could be possible and 
would matter for this decision, I think. 

Meanwhile, the bill purchases and the open market operations have given us some time to 
gather and evaluate more information, discuss the issues, and come to a consensus. I’ll leave it 
there. I think it’s wise to let this issue gestate longer. And, again, I am very open to this being 
part of the framework, but I think it’s premature to try to make that decision today. 
And with that, we’ll take a coffee break. This will be a 20-minute coffee break, ending at 
quarter of 3:00. Hopefully. [Laughter] Thank you. 
[Coffee break] 
CHAIR POWELL. Now we turn to the review of the economic and financial situation. 
Stacey, would you like to start? 
MS. TEVLIN.4 Sure. Our materials are in the packet that says “Material for 
Briefing on the U.S. Outlook.” In many past October FOMC meetings, I’ve enjoyed 
the friendly banter between presidents with World Series contenders in their Districts. 
But a reliable source told me that President Barkin may not be planning to mention 
the Fifth District contenders. And so, with apologies to President Kaplan, I’ve 
therefore put all my panels in the red and blue of the Washington Nationals. 
MR. KAPLAN. I feel much better you mentioned it, after the past few days. [Laughter] 
MS. TEVLIN. My remarks will be briefer than usual, because I plan to cede 
much of my time to Chris Nekarda, so that he can present some of the highlights of 
the memo that you received on unemployment-rate benchmarks. 
The black line and dots in panel 1 show that GDP growth, which was 2.5 percent 
last year, held at that same pace in the first half of this year but appears to be slowing 
to an average 1.5 percent rate in the second half. This story should by now be very 
familiar, because we have had essentially the same forecast since June. For the third 
quarter, our latest estimate is 1.6 percent, and we will get the BEA’s first reading on 
this figure tomorrow morning. This quarter, we expect growth of 1.5 percent. We 
estimate that each of these quarters is held down about 0.2 percentage point by the 
GM strike. 
The bars in this panel contain the components of private domestic final purchases, 
lumped into two categories to illustrate the dichotomy we are seeing between 
different sectors of the economy. The blue portions, which represent the growth 
contributions made by consumption and housing expenditures, have held fairly steady 
 
4 The materials used by Ms. Tevlin and Mr. Nekarda are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). 

over the two years shown here. In contrast, business fixed investment growth, the red 
portions of the bars, has slowed and seems to have turned negative in the second half. 
The slowing in the overall economy this year has also been evident in a slowdown 
in private payroll gains published by the BLS, the black line in panel 2. The red and 
blue lines show two alternative ways to assess the strength of payrolls. The blue line 
is a pooled estimate using both published BLS data and our alternative measure based 
on ADP microdata through September, while the red line makes an adjustment to the 
published data based on our rough estimate of how the BLS may fold in the 
downward revision implied by its preliminary annual benchmarking. Both of these 
alternatives suggest weaker gains in payrolls this year than shown in the published 
data. These two measures also suggest that payrolls are rising at a pace close to our 
estimate of the range consistent with unchanged labor market slack, the gray shaded 
area. In the fourth quarter, we expect payrolls—both adjusted and unadjusted, the red 
and black dots—to be close to where they have been over the past three months, and 
we expect the unemployment rate will flatten out at 3.6 percent. On Friday, we will 
receive the October labor report, and we expect total payroll increases to come in 
quite low, at only around 50,000, because of the transitory effects of the GM strike. 
As shown in panel 3, we continue to see output decelerating modestly over the 
medium term, as the boost provided by fiscal policy wanes. With output growth 
expected to run roughly in line with potential growth, the green horizontal lines, over 
the next few years, the unemployment rate is projected to hold steady at 3.6 percent 
through 2022. This gentle landing depends importantly on our assumptions that the 
drag on growth from trade developments will not worsen but will gradually dissipate 
and that foreign growth will improve, as Beth Anne will discuss shortly. 
Panel 4 shows our inflation projection. We estimate that the 12-month change in 
core PCE prices—the red line—was 1.7 percent in September. We expect core 
inflation to move sideways at this rate through year-end and then temporarily pick up 
to 2 percent by March of next year, as the weak readings from early this year drop out 
of the calculation and the transitorily high readings from the spring and summer 
remain for a while. Looking further ahead, we expect core inflation to run at 1.8 
percent—our estimate of its underlying trend. This flat trajectory balances a drag on 
inflation coming from a rising dollar in our projection with a boost from the low 
unemployment rate, which remains well below our estimate of its natural rate 
throughout the projection. 
As the unemployment rate has declined over the past several years, participants 
around this table have often discussed how it compares with their own natural or 
longer-run unemployment rate or how it compares with the Tealbook natural rate or 
to some other benchmark. At times, it has seemed as though people were talking 
about different concepts. The memo that Chris will summarize is meant to help 
clarify and categorize various types of benchmark unemployment rates that are 
frequently mentioned by policymakers and staff. 

MR. NEKARDA. As Stacey noted, the gap between the unemployment rate and 
a benchmark rate often serves as a guidepost for policymakers’ assessments of 
maximum employment and price stability. Our memo proposed two broad categories 
of unemployment rate benchmarks, which we called the “longer-run unemployment 
rate,” or LRU, and the “stable-price unemployment rate,” or SPU. As defined at the 
top of panel 5, the LRU is the rate of unemployment expected to prevail after the 
economy has fully adjusted to business cycle shocks. The SPU, defined at the top of 
panel 6, is the rate of unemployment such that there are no upward or downward 
pressures on price inflation apart from those stemming from underlying inflation or 
arising from supply shocks. In short, the gap between the unemployment rate and the 
LRU is an indicator of the cyclical position of the economy, while the SPU is the rate 
of unemployment at which there is no cyclical pressure on price inflation. 
As noted in the bullets in panel 5, the LRU is largely determined by nonmonetary 
factors and will evolve with the changing structure and dynamics of the economy. 
For example, demographics, educational attainment, and industrial and occupational 
composition are thought to be important forces shaping the LRU. In practice, 
distinguishing these from business cycle shocks is challenging, and a particular 
estimate of an LRU will depend on which forces are directly accounted for. Finally, 
it’s worth emphasizing that the LRU need not represent maximum employment. 
Indeed, as noted in the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy 
Strategy, “the Committee considers a wide range of indicators” when judging success 
on the employment side of the mandate. 
As noted in panel 6, the gap between the unemployment rate and the LRU is not 
necessarily the relevant benchmark for assessing cyclical pressures on price inflation. 
For example, inflation could also be affected by cyclical variation in firms’ markups 
or cyclical changes in labor force participation and composition. Thus, an alternative 
benchmark—the SPU—needs to take these factors into account as well. A Phillips 
curve equation is the core of a common framework used for informing estimates of 
the SPU. As illustrated by the equation at the bottom, a particular SPU estimate will 
depend on the assumptions being made about underlying inflation and on which other 
transitory influences on inflation are directly accounted for. 
Panel 7 describes the relationship between the LRU and SPU concepts. Changes 
in the underlying structure of the economy that are expected to persist in the longer 
run will affect both the LRU and the SPU. By contrast, cyclical factors relevant for 
price pressures will affect only the SPU. For example, a temporary extension of 
unemployment insurance benefits will increase the SPU relative to the LRU, as would 
a transitory increase in the degree of skill mismatch or a cyclical rise in firms’ desired 
price markups. 
Importantly, if the wedge between the SPU and the LRU was expected to persist 
for several years, policymakers might view the appropriate benchmark to use in the 
current setting of monetary policy to be different from their estimates of the longer-
run unemployment rate. In practice, unemployment rate benchmarks are not directly 

observed and are difficult to infer, even with the benefit of hindsight. Your final 
exhibit summarizes some estimates of these benchmarks. 
Panels 8 and 9 summarize a collection of time-series estimates of unemployment 
rate benchmarks, drawn primarily from models used within the System. The thick 
solid lines indicate the median estimate for each quarter. The lighter shaded areas 
denote the range of estimates, while the darker shaded areas highlight the middle 
70 percent. 
As shown in panel 8, estimates of LRUs decline gradually from around 6 percent 
in the mid-1990s to around 4½ percent in recent years. Estimates of SPUs, shown in 
panel 9, also decline, on net, but the most noticeable feature is the hump from about 
2009 to 2014. Finally, you can see that the range of estimates is wide for both 
benchmark categories. Although the central tendency for the LRU narrows 
considerably after 2010, it remains sizable for the SPU. 
Where does this leave us at present? The upper portion of panel 10 is a histogram 
of the most recent values from the time-series plots above, along with the median or 
mean forecast from several surveys of professional forecasters. The height of a bar 
corresponds to the number of estimates in each ¼ percentage point interval. The 
lower portion of panel 10 reports the distribution of longer-run unemployment rate 
projections from the September SEP. 
As you can see by the light blue shaded area, the central tendency of the SEP sits 
toward the lower half of the distribution of estimates in the upper portion of the panel. 
Two additional observations deserve mention. First, the distribution of SPUs, the 
orange bars, lies somewhat to the left of the distribution of LRUs, the blue bars. That 
is, estimates that use information in inflation and nominal wage growth generally 
point to a lower benchmark unemployment rate than those that do not. This raises the 
possibility of being in a situation in which the unemployment rate is lower than what 
is expected to prevail in the longer run but not low enough to bring inflation back up 
to the Committee’s inflation objective over the next several years. 
Second, the unemployment rate is currently below most of the benchmark 
estimates that we considered. Panel 11 notes some potential costs and benefits 
associated with this situation, beyond the risks of undesirable inflation outcomes or 
the unanchoring of inflation expectations. Unemployment that is too low for too long 
has potential costs, including risks to financial stability or distorting incentives in 
favor of short-term economic gains. Of course, low unemployment may provide 
longer-run benefits over and above the likely short-term benefits it affords to many 
individuals. For example, a tight labor market might raise labor force attachment, 
create incentives for firms to provide additional training for workers, and improve job 
matches between workers and firms, possibly raising productivity. Moreover, these 
benefits might accrue, especially to disadvantaged groups or regions. 
In summary, when considering various unemployment rate benchmarks, it may be 
helpful for FOMC participants to assess what type of benchmark they think is most 

informative for monetary policy and how the potential benefits and costs of being 
away from that benchmark relate to the Committee’s objectives of maximum 
employment and 2 percent inflation. Beth Anne will continue our presentation. 
MS. WILSON.
5 It is with tremendous self-restraint that I forgo a Halloween-
themed briefing. [Laughter] Instead, I have found inspiration in a far more 
traumatizing fall ritual—applying to college. The pinnacle of this torture is the essay 
in which applicant upon applicant struggles to distill the very essence of their topic 
into a few pages to be reviewed by increasingly mindnumbed readers. So it is in this 
spirit that I present to you the “IF Foreign Economy Personal Essay.” As required by 
this year’s common application on slide 1, “Write an essay of no more than 854 
words using one of the following prompts.” For today, I’ll choose, “Where do you, 
the foreign economy, see yourself now and how do you see your path ahead? How 
much conviction do you have about that path? What do you see as key challenges to 
your future?” 
So, speaking as the foreign economy, I begin on slide 2. As you can see on the 
left, after strong performance earlier, my real GDP growth last year was frankly not 
Ivy League material. This year it has been hard to gain traction, and I continue to 
disappoint. I take ownership of some of this weakness—in Europe, Brexit 
uncertainty and unexpectedly challenging auto emission tests have been weighing 
down my GDP, as has deleveraging in China, the downside risk of an Asian tech 
cycle, and a deep slump in Latin America. But I have also been blindsided by trade 
policy uncertainty, which has shaken my confidence and made me reluctant to trade 
and invest. I now expect that the rest of 2019 will be a bit of a struggle but that I’ll 
start to improve next year, boosted by recovery in Latin America and diminishing 
policy uncertainty, and grow above my potential by 2021. I am taking a more sober 
look at what my potential is, however. As you can see on the right, I’ve revised down 
my expectations a little on that score. 
How much conviction do I have in this path? As discussed in the next slide, I 
have accommodative monetary policy on my side. Record-low interest rates in the 
advanced economies and a raft of rate cuts in the emerging market countries should 
support lending and sentiment. Indeed, credit is picking up in some key economies, 
importantly China and the euro area, seen on the left. Globally, labor markets remain 
buoyant. And there are signs that retail sales, in the middle, are turning around and 
some hints from high-tech exports and IP in ex-China Asia, on the right, that, despite 
the most recent downward moves, the tech cycle may be bottoming out. 
As discussed in slide 4, however, I’m none too confident about these outcomes. 
I’ve learned to be wary of depending on Latin America or the resolution of 
uncertainty to pick me up. I also worry that the continued weakness in global 
manufacturing, seen on the left, could spill over into other sectors and drag me into 
recession. Over the past half century, aggregate foreign GDP and industrial 
production, to the right, have moved closely together, with IP falling sharply in times 
 
5 The materials used by Ms. Wilson are appended to this transcript (appendix 5). 

of global recession. But does a decline in foreign industrial production always 
presage recession? 
The table in slide 5 looks at this more carefully. The first five lines show, for 
each foreign recession since 1970, the deviation in IP growth from trend in the 
12 months before the start of recession, column 1, and the deviation in GDP growth 
from trend in the first year of recession, column 2. As seen in line 6, IP growth falls 
an average of almost 2 percent below trend the year preceding a recession. It is 
concerning, therefore, on line 7 that foreign IP has fallen by more than 2 percent 
below trend over the past year. That said, outside recessions, line 8, there were 
14 occasions when IP growth fell 2 percent or more below trend and, on average, 
GDP growth remained near trend. 
Historical experience with the foreign purchasing managers indexes, or PMIs, 
discussed on your next slide also does not provide clear-cut evidence on the 
likelihood of an impending recession. The left-hand chart shows manufacturing and 
services PMIs for the euro area over 20 years. Typically, these two leading indicators 
of GDP track each other closely. Lately, however, the series have diverged, raising 
the question of whether manufacturing weakness will ultimately drag services down 
or be overcome by its strength. Granger-causality tests suggest that manufacturing 
PMI leads services, which points to some downside risk in my future, but the 
evidence is weak and the directionality not always consistent. Moreover, the foreign 
PMI series excluding the euro area, to the right, shows services and manufacturing 
tracking more closely and having held up better. 
That said, as discussed in slide 7, even if Brexit and trade risks do not reintensify, 
the current weakness in manufacturing raises a key challenge to my future if it 
portends a greater and more sustained drag from trade policy uncertainty and other 
factors than anticipated. The possibility of such a global slowdown is explored in the 
Risks and Uncertainty section of the October Tealbook. In this scenario, lower 
productivity and confidence significantly reduce foreign real GDP, flight-to-safety 
flows boost the dollar, and U.S. real GDP growth weakens notably. 
Concluding on slide 8, notwithstanding my disappointing performance and 
continued risks, I am still hopeful over the medium term. Odds are that the drag on 
manufacturing will lessen and foreign real GDP growth will begin to approach 
potential next year. Indeed, our richer models of foreign recessions, which also 
include information on retail sales and financial indicators, shown to the right, point 
to limited near-term risk of foreign recession. Moreover, uncertainty and risks from 
Brexit and trade policy appear to have lessened of late, and these improvements, if 
sustained, should reduce headwinds on manufacturing and investment. Thus, with a 
little bit of luck and a lot of policy accommodation, I still hope to reach my potential 
in coming years. I’m not going to lie, though—speaking as the foreign economy, I 
wish my application were stronger. Here’s hoping that the next applicant, Andreas on 
financial stability, can present a more reassuring case. [Laughter] 

MR. LEHNERT.6 Thank you, Beth Anne. I’ll be referring to the materials 
labeled “Material for Briefing on Financial Stability Developments.” I’m going to 
briefly summarize our current assessment for financial stability, which was reflected 
in the draft Financial Stability Report you all received last week. Our current plan is 
to publish the report in mid-November. 
What does our survey of imbalances show? For many asset classes, the measures 
we use to gauge risk appetite have returned to the rough middles of their historical 
ranges, suggesting that asset valuation pressures have eased. Household debt 
continues to lag GDP, but business debt is at or near record levels whether measured 
relative to GDP or assets. The financial system seems quite resilient. Financial 
institutions currently have robust capital cushions, although low interest rates and 
bank payout plans may point to some decreased resilience. Finally, liquidity 
mismatches, particularly outside the regulated banking system, seem to be falling. 
On slide 2, I show a range of measures that we use to gauge investor appetite for 
assets related to the business sector. We use both price and nonprice terms to gauge 
the “heat” in the system. Measures of the compensation investors demand to bear 
risk rose in 2019 over their levels in 2017 and 2018. The top-left panel shows the 
staff estimate of the equity risk premium. As you can see, this moved to fairly low 
levels in the summer of 2018 but rose abruptly early this year and is currently in the 
middle of its range over the past 30 years. The panel to the right shows spreads on 
corporate bonds in the investment-grade (blue line, left scale) and high-yield (black 
line, right scale) sectors. These are currently just a touch below the medians of their 
historical distributions since 1997. 
The bottom two panels zoom in on leveraged loans. For much of 2018 this 
market was “white hot.” It has since cooled but is still “red hot.” To the left, I plot 
the spreads on newly issued leveraged loans. Spreads on less risky loans, which are 
those rated double-B, the blue line, are near the bottom of their post-crisis range, and 
spreads on riskier loans, which are those rated single-B, the black line, are more in the 
middle of their range. On the right I have plotted a nonprice measure of heat—the 
distribution of leverage on newly originated loans. As you can see, even if spreads 
are looking somewhat normal, a large fraction of deals still carry very high leverage, 
the red portions of the bars. 
Your next slide looks at property markets. The top panel shows the ratio of a 
year’s income produced by a commercial property to its sales prices—commonly 
known as the “capitalization rate.” This has been falling for several years, as price 
increases outstripped rental gains. While capitalization rates have been flat for some 
time and low rates provide support, commercial real estate prices remain high even as 
rental income has flattened out. The bottom graph shows an analogous concept for 
residential properties—the ratio of house prices to rents. For well over a year, prices 
have lagged rents, and this ratio has been declining. 
 
6 The materials used by Mr. Lehnert are appended to this transcript (appendix 6). 

As discussed on the next slide, elevated asset prices are a particular concern if 
they are accompanied by excessive borrowing by households and businesses. On this 
page I show debt owed by the nonfinancial sector—that is, by households and 
businesses—relative to GDP. This ratio, while not completely satisfactory, remains 
our best gauge of whether debt has grown too much. As you can see, aggregate debt 
to GDP has been flat for several years. Looking into the components: Households—
the yellow shaded region at the top—have continued their remarkable stretch of 
deleveraging, with their debt to GDP now back to levels last seen almost 20 years 
ago. But the story for almost the entire length of the current expansion has, of course, 
been business debt. As you can see from the bottom purple shaded region, business 
debt to GDP has continued to rise. An obvious question is the extent to which this 
debt growth has resulted in increased vulnerability of the business sector, the subject 
of your next slide. 
The top-left panel shows the net increase in outstanding leveraged loans, the blue 
bars, and high-yield bonds, the tan bars. For several years the picture has been 
dominated by leveraged loans. But more recently, net issuance has slowed and, 
indeed, turned negative, as paydowns exceeded gross borrowing in the third quarter. 
High-yield bonds have made up some, but not all, of this slowdown. Despite recent 
slowing, debt to assets, shown to the right, is extremely high. The jump in the final 
observation of this series is due to a change in the accounting treatment of operating 
leases. It’s hard to precisely disentangle the effect of this change, but if leverage did 
increase last quarter it was by a much smaller amount than shown. 
Of course, interest rates are lower now than at the same point in previous 
expansions, so all of this additional debt is, in principle, more sustainable. 
Nonetheless, if the average borrower is better off, perhaps there is a tail of highly 
indebted companies that are struggling. The bottom panel shows interest coverage 
ratios for public firms; that is, the ratio of earnings to interest expenses. In particular, 
the graph shows the fraction of firms with ratios of income to interest payments 
below 1, the red region, and below 2, the pink and red regions. Both of these groups 
have been trending down in recent years and stand at or near 20-year lows. The 
picture that emerges of the business sector is one in which businesses are currently 
managing their increased debt loads but could be vulnerable in a downturn. 
Your next slide gives two perspectives on bank capital. The top graph shows the 
ratio of a measure of high-quality, loss-absorbing capital to bank assets for three 
groups of banks: the U.S. G-SIBs, the blue line; banks with assets greater than 
$100 billion but that are not G-SIBs, the black line; and smaller banks, the red line. 
Looking ahead, while G-SIB capital ratios currently stand at or near multidecade 
highs, they have announced plans to reduce their equity cushions. Furthermore, 
recent declines in interest rates are potentially bad news for banks’ net interest 
margins. As shown in the bottom graph, the market value of bank assets relative to 
their book value has declined in recent months, suggesting that investors have marked 
down their outlook for bank profitability. Over the longer run, the lower this ratio, 
the more difficult it is for the banking industry to attract and keep capital. And to be 

sure, while this ratio has fallen some, it is well above its levels from even a few years 
ago. 
Your next slide looks at funding risk. Financial institutions and markets can be 
fragile if they have a mismatch in liquidity or maturity of assets and liabilities. We 
have focused on a particular area of funding risk: open-end mutual funds, which 
promise investors the right to redeem shares in one day but hold less liquid assets—in 
this case, high-yield corporate bonds or leveraged loans. You may recall that loan 
funds experienced considerable turmoil last December, with investors redeeming 
shares amid elevated price volatility and sizable, albeit temporary, declines in prices 
in the secondary market for loans. During that episode, the market adjusted quickly, 
in part because CLOs stepped in to purchase loans sold by funds. Over the course of 
this year, outflows from loan funds have continued at a notable pace, and assets under 
management, the red region in the graph, are now well below their earlier peaks. This 
concludes our prepared remarks. Stacey, Chris, Beth Anne, and I are happy to take 
your questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. Questions for the briefers? President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. Chris, I think, on your SPU chart, chart 9, the hump that 
you talked about in 2010, 2011, 2012—knowing what we know now, do you think that hump is 
real? I have to tell you, my bias looking at this is, knowing what we know now, I don’t think it’s 
real, but I’m just curious what you all think. 
MR. NEKARDA. Well, I’ll answer a related question. [Laughter] 
MR. KASHKARI. How about answering our question? [Laughter] And then you can 
answer another question. 
MR. NEKARDA. From the viewpoint of the models, and the factors in the models, we 
show in this panel how those factors account for increases in this SPU. So the rate of 
unemployment consistent with stable prices over this period ultimately proved transitory. One 
interpretation of this picture would be that, standing where we are in 2019, that wasn’t really a 
factor. But I think that through the lens of these models, it would say in 2010 that the rate of 
unemployment consistent with stable prices was higher than it is today. 
MR. KASKARI. What do you think? 

MR. NEKARDA. What do I think? I think it will depend on the framework and the 
model you’re looking at. So I don’t have a strong view on that. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I have a question for Beth Anne. I was looking, and you didn’t have it in 
this briefing, but it was in the Tealbook. I noticed—and all of us have done this, it’s not the staff 
here who have done it, but—there’s been this consistent markdown in global real growth. It 
reminds me of the pictures that we had back after the financial crisis when we continued to think 
U.S. real GDP growth was going to be up, and from every Tealbook we got and from any private 
forecaster, you kept seeing this markdown. And, at some point, we just had to accept that we 
had something in the underlying trend or in our models that was off, and so we were building 
these ground-up calculations, but they were never delivering the outcome. And so I just 
wonder—I’m sure you guys have wrestled with this, and I know you’re not that optimistic about 
your application, but why should we be so sure of this one if there seems like there’s additional 
downside risk? 
MS. WILSON. Right. I did want to convey a certain uncertainty about this, and it is a 
bit disheartening to have to keep presenting downward revisions in our Tealbook. Some of the 
reasons why we’ve had to mark down have reflected actual changes in the environment in which 
we’re facing. Over this time, we’ve had some shocks that in some part have been responsible for 
why policy rates here have come down. We’ve had increases in trade policy uncertainty. We’ve 
had continued uncertainty about Brexit. And we’ve, in part, revised up our assumptions of the 
drag of those uncertainties on the underlying economy. And our baseline is conditioned on those 
uncertainties going away, but when they don’t, then we need to alter how we think about those. 
So that’s one thing. 

Another thing is, in Latin America, the situation has been much more dire and long-
standing. The incredibly long recession in Brazil, the collapse of the Argentine economy now, 
the change in leadership in Mexico and what that’s meant for the Mexican economy, and the 
uncertainty that’s meant, have caused us to revise down our forecast, to be surprised by how 
growth has come in, and, as you saw, to revise down potential output. 
In China, too, we’ve been somewhat surprised. We had built in a slowing in the Chinese 
economy. That slowing has happened, been more manifest, in part exacerbated by trade policy 
uncertainty and the willingness of the policymakers to focus on financial stability concerns and 
deleveraging rather than do another round of boosting—we’ve taken that onboard. 
MS. DALY. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Stacey, chart 4 on PCE inflation. 
MS. TEVLIN. Yes. 
MR. BARKIN. I guess some of us would get heartened in March when it finally gets to 
2 percent. What’s underlying your analysis that takes it down? Is it the weight of trend, and 
trend takes it down? Are there particular items that you see in the second or third quarter of this 
year that would be the cell phone pricing equivalent? 
MS. TEVLIN. Yes, it’s something like that. Early this year, we had really weak monthly 
readings in January, February, March. And then we had a rebound higher than we would have 
expected—but idiosyncratic mostly, we think—monthly gains in the second and third quarters. 
So as the first-quarter low numbers drop out, the 12-month change will move up. But then after 
that, we expect the high numbers seen in the second and third quarters of this year to drop out 
and the increase to move back toward its trend rate. 

MR. BARKIN. Are there particular items, like financial services? Is that what’s driving 
it? Or was it just low for a while, and it was high for a while, and we assume it will— 
MS. TEVLIN. There’s a bunch of different categories, yes. But it wasn’t one thing from 
month to month. It was a lot of different categories. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. No further questions? Let’s go ahead and begin our opportunity for 
comment on financial stability with President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d like to briefly raise two topics. First, the 
Financial Stability Report shows that high-yield bonds and institutional leveraged loans 
outstanding now exceed $2.5 trillion. This is substantially larger than the subprime housing 
market that generated so many problems during the financial crisis. However, the distribution of 
how subprime mortgages were held was a critical factor in the magnified effect on the economy 
during the financial crisis. 
I worry that we do not have a particularly good window on the overall size and 
distribution of riskier corporate debt, including the balance sheet data of borrowers. We can 
track a proportion of the debt through SEC filings or other sources, which report balance sheet 
data for borrowers, databases like S&P Capital, which looks like it’s underlying most of the 
tables that we’ve looked at, or CompuStat are hampered by SEC filing limitations. 
Because many private equity deals, which tend to have higher leverage multiples, fund 
with debt not captured in these common sources, we may have a limited window into the 
distribution of some of the highest-risk debt. There is information that the Flow of Funds 
Section receives, an aggregate using IRS filings for top-line balance sheet items, but my 
understanding is that we do not have access to the underlying microdata. The FSOC or OFR 

should look into how we can use IRS data to better capture risks in highly leveraged loans not 
covered by data tracked through SEC filings and other sources. 
My second observation is that monetary policy buffers here and in other developed 
economies are diminishing quickly. In the United States, both short-term and long-term rates are 
much closer to zero than they were going into the previous recession. The shrinkage in monetary 
policy’s buffer—a topic of our framework discussion—obviously limits our capacity to offset the 
next economic downturn. But it also has implications for regulatory and financial stability 
policy. With monetary policy less able to offset adverse shocks, regulatory and financial 
stability buffers should ideally increase. However, the very high payout ratios of banks and the 
potential proposal to no longer require the prefunding of dividends and share buybacks in the 
stress-test evaluations risk reducing regulatory buffers. This is compounded if we replace 
solvency capital with countercyclical capital buffers, which are intended to be removed during 
recessions to allow banks to absorb losses and make reductions in bank credit availability lower 
than would otherwise occur. 
We should be building our regulatory buffers, and these potential regulatory changes that 
encourage higher payout ratios and substitute solvency capital for countercyclical capital—
which, if anything, reduce regulatory buffers—make me much less inclined to continue to reduce 
monetary policy buffers. Although I would prefer to have regulatory policy address these 
fragilities, deregulation may force the need to preserve more of our monetary policy buffers so 
that they are available to offset eventual adverse economic or financial shocks. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 

MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think the Board’s Financial Stability Report is a 
very important addition to the Federal Reserve’s communications. At the framework conference 
at the Chicago Fed, Anil Kashyap of the University of Chicago and Caspar Siegert of the Bank 
of England, who are both affiliated with the United Kingdom’s Financial Stability Committee, 
presented a paper that points to this report as an indication that the Federal Reserve takes 
financial stability risks seriously and has a framework for monitoring these risks. And I think 
that recognition reflects positively on the report and the System. I want to thank Governor 
Brainard for all of her efforts to successfully add this report to our suite of communications, and 
I want to thank the staff for continuing to monitor financial stability. 
So, according to the report, financial stability risks remain moderate, but the 
accumulation of risks in various areas suggests risks are rising. When you read the report, in all 
the places you can just add up those risks, and they seem to be rising, at least in my view. The 
report continues to indicate that high levels of corporate debt, leveraged lending, and elevated 
commercial real estate valuations pose some risks to the outlook. Equity prices relative to 
earnings and corporate bond prices are high by historical standards, and capitalization rates on 
commercial real estate are near their 2007 lows. The most rapid increases in debt are at the 
riskiest firms. Leveraged loan demand remains high, and credit standards remain weak. About 
half of investment-grade debt outstanding is rated in the lowest category, which is an all-time 
high. 
While the Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey does not show a loosening in lending 
terms, anecdotal reports are accumulating that credit standards on some bank lending have eased 
considerably, with extended maturities and low rates. There has been a slight deterioration in 
credit quality, although overall loan losses remain low at this point. The spike in repo rates in 

September suggests that money market dynamics have changed and aren’t fully understood. 
This might be true in other markets as well. Liquidity in the U.S. Treasury securities market and 
the equity futures market has deteriorated. Market participants report that they view the equity 
futures market as more fragile now. Market participants also express concerns about the high 
growth in leveraged loans, private credit, and triple-B-rated bonds. In their view, a downturn 
could lead to larger losses and test new business models and investment strategies, such as 
exchange-traded funds. 
As the staff points out, currently the banking system is well capitalized, but several large 
banks are planning to reduce their voluntary buffers, and this is troubling. Given the risks 
around the outlook, banks should be building capital, not reducing it. Indeed, a lesson coming 
out of our “tabletop” financial stability exercises is that to work, macrofinancial policies need to 
be initiated at early signs of risk. The countercyclical capital buffers should have already been 
initiated to help ensure banks are in a position to maintain their lending through any downturn. 
The Europeans are currently dealing with some of the costs of not taking steps earlier to 
rebuild capital in their banking system. In particular, concerns about the health of their banking 
system put some limits on the effectiveness of their monetary policy actions. I think this is a 
lesson for us. While we are simplifying our capital and liquidity rules here, we shouldn’t lose 
sight of the importance of having regulations in place to help ensure the structural resiliency of 
our banking system throughout the business and financial cycles. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to focus on two things that were in the report 
and one thing that was not in the report. First, let me start with one of the things in the report. 
Market contacts appear to have fully internalized the idea that our funds rate policy space is more 

limited than in the past and that we may be unable to offset fully the effects of future downturns. 
And this makes my second observation, also mentioned by President Rosengren and President 
Mester, even more concerning. 
The report noted that several large banks are reducing the size of their voluntary capital 
buffers in favor of maintaining dividend payouts. This behavior contrasts with that of many 
nonfinancial firms I talked to that are currently hoarding cash and getting ready in preparation 
for a possible period of heightened volatility and slower growth. At this point in the cycle, with 
worries about limited monetary policy space and, frankly, fiscal policy space, any movement 
toward smaller capital buffers could be unduly risky. 
My final observation is something that’s not in the report. As thorough as the Financial 
Stability Report and the QS are, they are overlooking currently important and emerging risks 
related to climate. Central banks and financial regulators around the world have increased their 
focus on the micro and macroprudential implications of climate change–related risks, and the 
System’s staff are actively studying and discussing these issues, especially in San Francisco, 
New York, Dallas, and here at the Board. The conversations include individuals in economic 
research, supervision, and community development. 
Climate change can affect both financial shocks and vulnerabilities. In California, the 
recent wildfires, power blackouts, and PG&E bankruptcy are the most recent examples of how 
climate change can disrupt economic and financial activity. The balance sheets of a wide range 
of firms will also face new vulnerabilities from adverse climate trends, such as higher sea levels, 
and from the transition risk associated with replacing and pricing of carbon-related assets. These 
transition risks may be closer than we think, as demonstrated by ongoing litigation about the 
climate change risks faced by Exxon. This means that it will be important for us to develop the 

capacity to evaluate climate-related financial stability risks. I hope to see a QS box, perhaps, on 
climate risk before long and eventually to see climate risks included as part of our routine 
financial stability and monitoring process. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Looking at the current situation, looking at the 
presentation we’ve just had from the staff, I would conclude that financial vulnerabilities are 
moderate. It certainly looks like the premiums that investors are demanding to buy a range of 
financial assets are roughly in line with what they have been over the course of their history. 
Commercial real estate has been an area of focus—it’s been an area of focus for some 
time. The rise and fall of WeWork added some spice to that story, and we heard it first from 
President Rosengren. But although that’s still playing out, CRE prices have held up, 
capitalization rates are low, and the spreads of capitalization rates to Treasury yields are close to 
the usual levels. Funding risk seems contained. Household debt has grown in line with GDP. 
So if there’s something to focus on, and obviously many people are focused on this, it’s the 
expansion of business debt that has slowed down recently. But nonetheless, you still have a 
record share of corporate bonds that are rated triple-B, the lowest investment grade. And, as 
Andreas pointed out, measured by debt-to-assets or debt-to-GDP, balance sheet debt is high, 
particularly for riskier firms. 
Now, obviously, debt service loads are not particularly high, and it would seem that the 
tenor of all the other conversations we’re having is that debt service loads are not going to get 
particularly high anytime soon. But we should also note that our best information is for the very 
largest firms. In their recent financial stability report, our friends up the street at the IMF 
highlighted risks to small and medium-sized businesses, some of which have lots of debt and less 

funding to cover payments. I would take that, however, with a grain of salt. Tracking smaller 
firms is fraught with data challenges. The IMF calculations require some Herculean assumptions 
that probably stretch credulity. But, all in all, it’s fair to say that business-sector vulnerabilities 
have been growing through the expansion, and that could amplify a future downturn—just the 
sheer quantity of debt. 
You’re starting to see some cracks begin to show through. Triple-C-rated debt, the 
absolute junkiest of the junk, has seen some higher defaults and wider spreads in recent months. 
Other cracks other than in business debt could appear. Credit performance of households should 
be better for this level of the unemployment rate, and at this point in the business cycle there’s 
some evidence of increased delinquencies in the most vulnerable households. 
The key to all of this, however, is whether the debt holders, when they lose money in the 
downturn—as they will because that’s what happens in a downturn—will fail to lend more or 
whether they will fail altogether. If they fail to lend more, credit tightens and that weakens the 
economy further; if they fail altogether, then you have an unstable financial system. 
At the Financial Stability Board, we’ve been pulling together a report that looks at 
leveraged lending developments from a global perspective, particularly looking to see where the 
exposures are globally to leveraged lending and whether we have a better sense of who it is that 
might lend less or who it is that might fail altogether depending on how much they hold and what 
tranche of exposures they hold. The data challenges associated with that are large, but the joint 
work across various agencies globally seems broadly in line with previous Fed findings. I expect 
that we’re going to publish that work later this year, which will allow us to, again, get a more 
complete and I hope a more granular picture of these exposures. 

More generally, whether you get a fail-to-lend-more or a fail-altogether scenario depends 
on the existence of a resilient financial system, and fortunately we have one of those. The results 
from the latest stress tests suggest that banks are well capitalized and can weather a significant 
downturn. Our stress tests give us a very detailed look at the large banks’ exposures to 
commercial real estate, to other business debt, including leveraged loans. There are certain to be 
some big losses if the cycle turns, but we are not here to prevent banks from losing money on 
risky investments—only to ensure that they can absorb the losses. And their current capital 
levels certainly ensure that they can, which we test under severe levels of stress. So, again, I’m 
grateful for the presentation on financial stability and, all in all, I think that it should give us 
comfort as to the financial stability situation of the financial industry currently. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the Financial Stability Report is an 
excellent report, and I agree with what President Mester said about its usefulness. I would flag 
for Andreas one thing that I’m hearing increasingly about from contacts to the point where it’s 
worth raising, and it has to do with this issue of liquidity mismatches. Maybe you’re hearing 
similar things. Contacts I talk to have been giving me unsolicited analyses—of, particularly, 
triple-B credits and double-B credits—that assert that the rating agencies are systematically now 
overrating credits. And they send me presentations showing that debt to EBITDA—not 
coverages, but debt to EBITDA—are much higher, by historical standards for the same level of 
rating. And then the second thing they’re showing me is the EBITDA estimate at the time of 
rating versus the actual. And they’re struck by how wide the misses are—how much they’re 
getting these estimates wrong. 

These are very sophisticated market participants. One of them was quoted in the 
newspaper this morning about backing away from the corporate debt market. And what they’re 
saying increasingly is, they’re gearing up and increasing their dry powder in anticipation that 
there will be a certain number of triple-B bonds that are going to get downgraded to 
double-B bonds. 
We went back and did a little work on this. Obviously, the triple-B market is many 
multiples the size of the single-B market. And their assertion is, it’s going to take two or three of 
these credits getting downgraded. And oh, by the way, probably the most likely candidates are 
in the energy sector, if the price of oil dips below 50. And what they believe is going to happen 
in preparing for it is, you’re going to get an immediate widening in double-B credit spreads and 
single-B credit spreads because there’s just not enough capacity to take a couple of these 
downgrades. You’re going to have widening of spreads. 
The good news is, as I mentioned earlier today, it’s not that this won’t stabilize. There 
will be money. There are plenty of pools of money that have been forming to take advantage of 
this. The issue is, where we find the equilibrium, the spreads will be much wider than where 
we’ve had them. And the issue will be, back to your coverages chart, when these companies 
need to refinance, the coverages in that scenario are not going to look very good. And, in fact, it 
will make this corporate sector look a lot more leveraged than it does right now. 
Some of these people are actively hoping for this scenario, because they’re preparing for 
it. But I think they’re warning you’ve got a bigger corporate debt issue than you may realize. 
And it emanates, they believe, from overrating by the rating agencies. And I mention it because 
we’ve got this issue of daily liquidity being offered by mutual funds. They think that’s going to 
be stressed again in this scenario. You’re going to have a mismatch, and it’s going to be 

apparent. You’re going to have a widening of spreads. It’s going to tighten conditions broadly, 
because these funds will sell what’s liquid, and they won’t be able to sell others. You’ll have a 
gapping out. We are seeing, as Governor Quarles said—and I think this is healthy, actually—
some of the marginal credits already widening. And this may be part of the reason why, but 
these firms are gearing up for this. 
As I mentioned, for those who didn’t see the story, there was one firm, which struck me 
today, notably saying they’re backing away from the corporate debt market. So I think this 
corporate leverage issue, which has a lot to do with rates along the curve—and, again, it’s not 
that there won’t be liquidity, it’s just going to be at wider rates. And I think we’re increasingly, 
in my team, just preparing and thinking through what will happen to the economy as we’re 
slowing. This, to us, is a good explanation of why slowing global growth may seem innocuous 
to the United States, until you start looking at a couple of industries like energy and you realize it 
could actually be the proximate cause of this gapping out. So we’re continuing to watch it 
carefully, particularly in connection with the energy industry. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The preamble to the Financial Stability 
Report reminds us that promoting financial stability is a key element in meeting our dual 
mandate. It also describes actions taken by the Federal Reserve to promote the resilience of the 
financial system, including its supervision and regulation of financial institutions. 
While the current report concludes the financial system appears resilient, it calls for 
caution and continued monitoring, especially around rising domestic, global, and geopolitical 
economic threats to the U.S. financial system, which are occurring at a time when risky asset 
prices are elevated and corporate indebtedness is “red hot,” as I believe it was referred to. 

Against this backdrop, the FOMC is lowering interest rates, while large U.S. banks are 
lowering capital levels. Indeed, the report notes that many banks have announced regulatory 
capital targets 1 to 2 percentage points lower than their current levels, effectively lowering 
resilience. 
If the FOMC is to maintain its flexibility to adjust monetary policy, it must rely on 
Federal Reserve supervision and regulation, as well as other banking authorities, to maintain or 
strengthen capital in our largest banks to promote financial stability in the event of a shock. This 
is especially critical as low interest rates persist and encourage risk-taking in borrowing, the 
expansion lengthens, and downside risks remain prominent with limited monetary policy space. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. Let me join others in saying how valuable I find the 
Financial Stability Report and commend the staff. Let me touch on three areas of financial risk. 
One is from a traditional vulnerabilities lens, and two are forward looking. 
The third Financial Stability Report continues to highlight the combination of very low 
credit spreads and high levels of indebtedness among risky, nonfinancial corporates as the area 
of greatest vulnerability. The IMF Global Financial Stability Report also highlights high debt 
among risky corporates as the greatest vulnerability globally, and this is similar to the concerns 
that have been raised by President Kaplan. While valuation pressures remain elevated for a 
variety of asset classes, it’s especially true for commercial real estate and for risky corporate 
debt, where low spreads and strong risk appetite appear to be out of line with fundamentals. 
Corporate debt is at or near a historical peak, whether measured relative to nominal GDP 
or the book value of assets. And whereas previously mostly higher-earning firms with relatively 

low leverage were taking on additional debt, as the cycle has extended, it’s the firms that have 
high leverage, high interest expense, and low earnings and cash holdings that have increased 
their debt the most. 
Credit quality has deteriorated within the investment-grade segment, and the share of 
bonds rated at the lowest investment-grade level has reached record levels. Widespread 
downgrades of these bonds to speculative-grade ratings could induce rapid selling. This concern 
is higher than in the past, as bond mutual funds now hold a much larger share of the market, and 
the redemption behavior of investors in these funds is unclear. 
The Financial Stability Report highlights public debt, whereas the IMF Global Financial 
Stability Report augments that analysis with the growth in private debt, which compounds the 
magnitude of imbalances. Both reports highlight the substantial growth in leveraged lending, 
along with a notable deterioration in underwriting standards. Net issuance of leveraged loans to 
risky borrowers grew to historic highs last year. Recently, we’ve seen that the shift in the 
interest rate environment has led high-yield issuance to pick up relative to those leveraged loans. 
A large share of those loans are packaged in CLOs. To date, the default rate has been relatively 
low, and corporate credit conditions have been favorable. But if spreads rise sharply or 
economic conditions deteriorate, we could see downgrades, refinancing challenges, rising 
delinquencies, and losses. We’ve already seen substantial outflows from the loan funds that had 
been growing rapidly. 
Looking ahead, the low-for-long rate environment to which we have transitioned over the 
past year is likely to exacerbate these imbalances. If rates remain low for a long period as 
market participants are currently projecting, this would raise additional challenges. That kind of 
environment tends to increase financial vulnerabilities and lower resilience. In particular, low 

interest rates create higher incentives for a firm to increase indebtedness. They also reduce 
banks’ profitability and make it more difficult to reinforce capital buffers, as we saw in the 
presentation. A low-for-long environment can also reduce the solvency of some nonbank 
financial institutions, including pension funds and insurance companies, as some of these 
institutions have substantial fixed future liabilities, which they may struggle to meet when 
interest rates are persistently low. 
Both historical experience and economic research point to the risk that excesses in 
corporate debt markets could amplify any adverse shocks to the economy. Overindebted 
businesses may face payment strains when earnings fall unexpectedly, and they typically respond 
by pulling back disproportionately on both investment and employment, and that kind of 
behavior then amplifies volatility by reducing investors’ demand for risky assets. 
Recognizing the feedback loop between financial imbalances and the macroeconomy, it 
would be valuable to have macroprudential buffers to temper this cycle. Banks should have been 
reinforcing their buffers countercyclically by retaining some portion of their earnings when 
profits were high. Instead, common equity Tier 1 capital has come down by about 1 percent over 
the past two years at our large banks, and this will be the third year in a row that payouts are 
projected to exceed earnings, as Presidents Rosengren, Mester, and George pointed out. 
It is interesting that the research by Don Kohn and Nellie Liang highlighted the dividend 
prefunding requirements in the stress tests as the most important element of the stress test with 
regard to preserving countercyclical resilience. 
If the past three recessions are any guide, financial imbalances rather than price inflation 
are likely to pose the greatest risks to the expansion. It’s therefore key to achieving our 

monetary policy goals that the financial system remain resilient and that regulators resist the 
complacency that history suggests tends to accompany a strong economy. 
I will now turn briefly to the nontraditional risks out over the horizon. One risk that bears 
watching regards the emergence of stablecoins at global scale. Stablecoins aspire to achieve the 
functions of traditional money without relying on confidence in an issuer such as a central bank 
to stand behind the money. Indeed, for some potential stablecoins, users may have no rights with 
respect to the underlying assets overall. 
We’ve already seen the growth of massive payments networks on existing digital 
platforms, such as Alibaba and WeChat, and the issuance of stablecoins on a smaller scale, such 
as Tether, Gemini, and Paxos. What sets Facebook’s Libra project apart is the combination of an 
active user network representing more than one-third of the global population with the issuance 
of private digital currency opaquely tied to a basket of sovereign currencies. 
Given substantial network externalities, large-scale migration into a new stablecoin 
network such as Libra for purposes of payments may prove to be the leading edge of a broader 
migration that encompasses the other functions of money. Not only isn’t it clear what, if any, 
consumer protections will be in place with Libra or what recourse consumers will have, but also 
it’s not even clear how much price risk consumers might face, as they don’t appear to have rights 
to the underlying assets. 
In that kind of environment, any deterioration in confidence could trigger a loss of 
confidence resulting in a classic run, especially in view of the lack of clarity about the 
management of reserves and the rights and responsibilities of the various market participants in 
the open network. The potential for runs and spillovers could be amplified by ambiguity 
surrounding the ability of official authorities to provide backstop liquidity and to collaborate 

across borders. As we seek to understand these risks, we’re intensifying our work on a number 
of fronts: cooperating across borders with other regulators, implementing our real-time retail 
payments system, and increasing our research on digital currency, among others. 
Finally, I want to echo President Daly’s call for our financial stability agenda to 
encompass consideration of risks associated with severe weather, stranded assets, and other 
possible implications of climate change. Already, private-sector entities in a variety of sectors 
are assessing the risks to valuation in core business lines from the changing climate. We should 
be encouraging internal research and building on private-sector risk assessments and learning 
from international efforts, such as the United Kingdom’s macroprudential climate stress test, the 
Financial Stability Board, and the Network for Greening the Financial System, to make sure we 
have the appropriate tools and assessment methodologies in place. Thank you. 
 CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. My comments piggyback on those 
of Presidents Rosengren, Mester, and Kaplan, Governor Brainard, and others, and, in fact, our 
recurring discussions of the enormous growth in riskier, nonfinancial corporate debt. My main 
point is that structural changes in the provision of liquidity in the corporate debt market create a 
vulnerability that may further amplify the effects of a negative shock and financial conditions in 
the overall economy. Bouts of illiquidity in segments of equity and bond markets, which have 
been mentioned—and they’re all mentioned specifically in the Financial Stability Report—as 
well as the recent volatility in the repo market highlight the important but too often overlooked 
role of institutions’ market structure in the provision of liquidity in financial markets. 
Because liquidity tends to go missing just when it’s most needed, we have been focused 
on how structural changes in markets affect the provision of liquidity. A bank’s role in 

intermediating corporate debt has moved away from market-making, whereby they took risky 
assets onto their balance sheet to facilitate customer trades. Banks now act primarily as agents—
a type of intermediation that leaves this market more vulnerable to risks of fire sales and losses 
of market confidence. And the shift has occurred at a time when risky debt has grown 
significantly and yields are at historical lows. The work done by my staff highlights the record-
high share of corporate debt rated the lowest investment-grade ratings, something that’s already 
been mentioned a few times. And, of course, that makes it vulnerable to fire sales in the face of 
deterioration in corporate profits. 
While banks’ direct exposure to corporate bonds is low, the potential for liquidity 
suddenly vanishing in risky debt markets in the face of a credit event is concerning. As we think 
about the risk to the system from elevated nonfinancial business leverage, sharp deterioration in 
market liquidity of corporate debt is an amplification mechanism that we should incorporate in 
our assessment of this risk. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Thanks for a good round of comments. And let’s enter 
the homestretch now, with our economic go-round, beginning with President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. There’s not been much change in the Fourth 
District economic conditions since our previous meeting. Economic activity is still expanding at 
a modest pace. The Cleveland Fed staff’s diffusion index of business conditions moved up to 9 
in October from near-zero readings in July and September. Softness continues to be 
concentrated in the manufacturing and freight sectors, reflecting tariffs, trade policy, and softer 
foreign demand. There’s little evidence that this softness has spilled over to other parts of the 
Fourth District economy. 

We continue to see some difference between actual activity and concerns about the 
economy. Contacts tell us that activity in their firms is still good, and they expect future 
business conditions to remain healthy. Despite this, many contacts expressed some concerns 
about the outlook for the overall economy. I’ve heard many express a version of, “We are 
talking ourselves into a recession.” 
Now, one way to reconcile this is that their modal forecast remains sound, but they see 
downside risks to the outlook. Some firms are taking precautionary measures. Contacts from 
both larger and smaller financial institutions reported that more of their business customers are 
taking a wait-and-see approach to some of their capital spending decisions. Some firms are also 
building up cash reserves in order to be better positioned should the economy slow more than 
expected. 
Despite the caution, District labor market conditions remain strong. The unemployment 
rate edged up to 4.2 percent in September, but it’s still well below the Cleveland staff’s estimate 
of its longer-run normal level. Year-over-year growth in payroll employment in the District has 
remained near ½ percent over the past few months, in line with the Cleveland staff’s estimate of 
its longer-run trend. The expected benchmark revisions will make this a tad slower but still in 
line with trend growth. 
Contacts in a wide variety of sectors continue to report that it’s hard to find and retain 
workers to meet current demand. Some manufacturers reported that despite softer activity, 
they’re going to try to retain workers because it’s been so difficult to fill vacancies. Wage 
pressures remain elevated, but there may be limits. An owner of a small manufacturing firm 
experiencing significant turnover for skilled and unskilled workers has raised wages but is 

reluctant to continue to do so because he feels that the productivity of the available worker pool 
doesn’t justify the higher cost. 
Price pressures at District firms remain moderate. Several retailers headquartered in the 
District are concerned about their profitability in light of the tariffs on apparel and footwear that 
took effect on September 1. Most plan to absorb this cost increase in the near term, but one 
retailer was selectively increasing prices of some goods in response to new tariffs. 
Regarding the national economy, incoming data over the intermeeting period were mixed 
but did not change my outlook for the economy or my view of the risks to the outlook. Output 
growth is slowing in the second half of the year after an above-trend pace in the first half. I 
expect growth to be about trend for the year as a whole. 
The business sector remains soft. Equipment spending, manufacturing activity, and 
exports have all weakened considerably this year, but they have not weakened to the same extent 
as observed in the 2014 to 2016 period. Of course, they may not have stabilized yet either. One 
of my focuses has been whether there are signs that the softness in the business sector is spilling 
over to the consumer sector and labor markets. The good news is that, so far, there are few signs 
of broader weakness. The consumer side of the economy continues to do well. Although 
consumer spending has moderated from its strong second-quarter pace, it remains solid, and the 
underlying fundamentals supporting it are sound. Personal income growth has been between 4½ 
and 5 percent this year, household debt levels have risen with income and are not excessive, and 
consumer confidence remains at a high level. 
While business spending and sentiment have deteriorated this year amid concerns about 
tariff and trade policy and risks to the outlook, this has yet to affect hiring. Labor market 
conditions remain strong. In September, the unemployment rate fell to 3½ percent, the lowest 

level of the expansion. Job growth was expected to slow this year, and we’ve seen that—last 
year’s pace was 223,000 jobs per month, and this year’s pace has been about 160,000 per month. 
Now, the benchmark revisions to be released next February will take both of these levels 
down, but even with the revisions, current estimates suggest that job growth will still have been 
above trend. I do think we should begin to communicate the message that the coming revisions 
will show that job growth was slower than originally reported. We don’t want it to look like we 
were surprised by the revisions. And we also don’t want the message to get lost that labor 
markets remain solid, even with the expected revisions. That’s not to say we shouldn’t continue 
to monitor labor market conditions. The Board staff’s ADP measure shows a more substantial 
slowdown in private-sector job growth, and while job openings remain at a very high level, they 
have moved down since January. So we’ll need to keep an eye on indicators to assess whether a 
sharper deceleration in labor markets is developing or whether job growth is slowing 
toward trend. 
This slowdown to a more sustainable pace of job growth as workers become scarce is not 
a bad thing. If labor market conditions remain overly tight for some time, there can be 
unintended consequences apart from any effect on inflation. For example, several members of 
our business advisory council have mentioned that their ability to innovate has been lessened 
because so much of their time is spent on recruiting, and less innovation could negatively affect 
future growth. Other firms tell us that because workers are so hard to find, they are speeding up 
their efforts to automate more of their operations. In the long run, such automation can make 
production more efficient and raise the potential growth rate of the economy. However, in the 
short to medium run, workers without the necessary skills to operate in a highly automated 
production process may be left behind unless they have access to affordable training programs. 

Incoming data are consistent with inflation gradually firming to our 2 percent goal. 
Although total PCE inflation continues to be weighed down by declines in energy prices early in 
the year, core PCE inflation has been rising and reached 1.8 percent in August. Other measures 
of the underlying inflation trend are closer to our goal. The Dallas Fed’s trimmed mean PCE 
inflation measure has been stable at 2 percent. The Cleveland Fed’s Center for Inflation 
Research produces several inflation measures, and all have been moving up. Median PCE 
inflation was 2.7 percent in August, and median CPI inflation moved up to 3 percent in 
September. Both of these are at expansion highs. The trimmed-mean CPI measure was 
2.3 percent in September, and the cyclical component of core PCE inflation constructed using 
finely disaggregated data is running at about 3 percent, its highest level of the post-crisis period. 
Now, forecasts of inflation gradually returning to 2 percent are dependent on long-run 
inflation expectations remaining stable. Recent readings have been mixed. The long-horizon 
inflation forecasts from Blue Chip and Consensus Economics were unchanged in October. The 
Cleveland Fed’s five-year, five-year-forward measure of expectations, which combines market 
and survey data, was unchanged from September to October but down slightly from its level in 
the previous few months. Readings of longer-run household expectations from the Michigan and 
New York Fed surveys edged down since our previous meeting. So far, the softer readings are in 
line with the typical variation of these measures, and if our 2 percent inflation objective is 
credible and well understood by the public, it shouldn’t be that surprising to find these measures 
gradually converging down to 2 percent. 
I recently participated in an inflation conference at the Brookings Institution. Michael 
Weber of the University of Chicago presented his research showing that consumers’ daily 
shopping experience is the most critical determinant of their inflation expectations. Goods 

purchased frequently matter more, and differences in reported inflation expectations across 
individuals largely reflect what price changes each is experiencing and has experienced given 
their different shopping bundles. 
These results seem consistent with some of the reactions we collected from participants at 
our Fed Listens event. They were quite surprised, perhaps even dismayed, that the Fed was 
concerned about inflation being too low because, in their view, inflation was high and prices 
were increasing for the things they needed to purchase. As one participant told me, “It costs a lot 
more to be poor these days.” 
On balance, I view incoming information on the economy as consistent with my modal 
forecast of output growth slowing toward trend, which I estimate at 2 percent; a strong labor 
market, with the unemployment rate remaining below 4 percent; and inflation gradually rising to 
2 percent. I think we’ll avoid a more serious turndown in the economy similar to the 2014–16 
period, when the economy proved resilient with the slowdown in global demand, a decline in oil 
prices, and appreciation of the dollar, which caused the drop-off in investment and 
manufacturing activity. 
The nature of the downside risks this time is different, however, and they’re not 
insignificant. These risks include new tariffs and uncertainty over trade policy; slower growth 
abroad, including China; Brexit developments; and tensions in the Middle East and Hong Kong. 
So we’re going to need to keep assessing whether the effects of adverse shifts in business 
sentiment and uncertainty over the outlook are expanding, causing firms not only to reduce 
capital spending, but also to pull back on hiring, which then causes consumer sentiment and 
spending to weaken and unemployment to rise, with inflation staying below our target because of 
weak aggregate demand. 

These risks are one consideration in determining the appropriate path of monetary policy, 
but there are other considerations as well. Financial institutions seem sound at this time. But 
capital levels have fallen over time, and our macroprudential tools are limited. Levels of 
corporate debt, especially at less creditworthy borrowers, remain high. Commercial real estate 
valuations are elevated. And there are reports of very easy credit terms on some types of 
lending. 
We have relatively less insight into risks that may be building up outside the banking 
sector, and interest rates have been very low worldwide for an extended period of time, which 
may be encouraging reach for yield. We need to be careful not to feed this type of risk-taking, 
which could lead to a more severe downturn should downside risks be realized. 
Now, in our framework discussion, Vice Chair Williams misinterpreted my comment. I 
said we should remain humble about the magnitude of the effects of our tools. I did not say that 
we should be timid in using them when appropriate. In fact, if there’s evidence of a material 
change in the outlook, we will have to act—and act decisively. But, until then, my preferred 
policy strategy is to continue to monitor economic and financial conditions and not make further 
adjustments in our policy rate merely on heightened risk. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. Before I present my outlook remarks, I 
would like to attend briefly to a matter carried over from our first session this morning. Now, 
unlike my good friend and colleague Governor Quarles, I do not have this hanging above my 
bed, but it is hanging over me. [Laughter] In our first panel this morning, we discussed as one 
of the framework topics negative interest rates, and by my count 16 of the 17 of us weighed in on 
that topic. Because I began I did not, so let me be clear. Among us, I’m probably the most 

negative on negative interest rates [laughter] or in the lower quartile. So when the minutes of 
this meeting are written and in five years when the transcripts appear, I think it’s unanimous on 
that. So just to get that out of the way. 
I turn now to the outlook remarks. We’re awaiting the Q3 GDP release tomorrow 
morning, although some of us will get it earlier than that, but the U.S. economy appears to be in 
a good place, with historically low unemployment and inflation near but projected to rise up 
toward out 2 percent objective. Real wages are rising in line with productivity, labor force 
participation is up, and hours worked are increasing. The labor market is robust, but there is no 
evidence that rising wages are a source of cost-push pressure on price inflation. Indeed, if 
anything, the revised national income data show a noteworthy—and, to me, welcome—increase 
in labor share of national income in recent years. Indeed, by my calculation, it’s back to the 
levels previously reached a dozen years ago. And this reveals that as in previous cycles, wage 
increases absorbed by margin compression are noninflationary. 
Of course, income shares have to add to one, and, thus, the revised data also show that 
the share of profits in national income has declined. This is relevant because as the staff reminds 
us, profit expectations are an important driver of business investment, and the decline in profit 
expectations is one reason why they project a weak trajectory for business investment. 
Underlying inflation appears to be running at the 1.8 percent rate estimated by the staff. 
Tariffs and some favorable transitory year-over-year effects may push core PCE inflation above 
2 percent next winter. But, once these level effects pass through, the staff projects core inflation 
to fall below 2 percent next year and to remain there throughout our forecast horizon. 
As I have commented here and in some recent interviews, the aggregate household sector 
in the United States is in the best shape that I can remember in my professional career. The 

saving rate is robust. Leverage is modest. Financial obligation ratios are favorable. The U.S. 
consumer is projected by the staff to continue to be the main, and perhaps only, engine of growth 
besides the housing sector. That said, the staff projects that real GDP growth will slow to 1.6 
percent in the second half of the year, roughly in line with their estimate of trend, but below my 
estimate of trend, due to weakness in business investment and exports. And for the first time, I 
believe, in six or seven quarters, residential investment is rebounding and will be making a 
positive contribution to growth. 
So this is some of the good news in the projection, and my baseline outlook for the 
economy is similar to the staff’s, but my concern is not about the baseline but the balance of 
risks. And as I’ve indicated since the June SEP, I do see the balance of risks for inflation and 
real GDP growth tilted somewhat to the downside. And here my thinking is actually in 
alignment with many of the Committee. I asked a research assistant to go back through the SEPs 
since 2012 to construct a simple time-series diffusion index. In each of our SEPs we’re asked 
the question, “Is the risk to your GDP outlook weighted to the upside, balanced, or to the 
downside?” So you can simply construct a diffusion index, which is the difference between the 
number of us who say “weighted to the upside” minus “weighted to the downside.” In the 
September SEP, the reading on the GDP balance of risk was minus 12, which was close to the 
lowest, really, it’s been since 2012, and the inflation diffusion balance of risk was at minus 5. 
And so looking at the balance of risk, I think the Committee judges—and I think President 
Mester also just mentioned this—the balance of risks are skewed to the downside. 
In my remaining time I will focus my remarks on the downside risks to the inflation 
outlook. Again, as we’ve commented and I’ve commented in previous meetings, the staff’s 
forecast is for PCE inflation on a core basis to return to 1.8 percent. The staff does see cyclical 

upward pressure on inflation because unemployment is below their estimate of the natural rate, 
but that’s offset with other factors, including a stronger dollar. And, of course, a potential risk to 
that outlook is that, if the natural rate of unemployment is actually lower than we think, there 
will be less cyclical upward pressure on inflation. And that is a downside risk and one that I’m 
potentially concerned about. 
I would like to draw attention to a box in the Tealbook on pages 20 and 21, which 
summarizes some excellent staff work to construct what they call a “common inflation 
expectations index.” And essentially what they do is they use a statistical model to extract a 
common factor in 21 different measures of inflation expectations. And so the advantage of the 
statistical approach is that it does not rely on our instincts or our priors to tilt us in one way or the 
other. For example, I cite the Michigan survey a lot, which shows lower inflation expectations 
than some others. 
Now, what this statistical model shows on the box on pages 20 and 21 is that if you 
extract this common factor, it has been drifting down over the past four or five years. It’s at the 
lowest level that it has been. That being said, it’s not a significant or large drift, but certainly if 
you thought the factor was consistent with stable inflation expectations at a 2 percent level 
12 years ago, it’s somewhat lower than that level now. So I think it’s something that we should 
keep track of, and I applaud their efforts to include that. 
And then finally—and I’ll conclude on this, Mr. Chair—I do note that staff estimates of 
expected inflation from the TIPS market, which strip out the term premium, which strip out 
liquidity effects, have been sagging noticeably since the summer. For most of the year, the 
fluctuation in breakevens in the staff model were attributed to term and liquidity premiums, but 
more recently they are attributing most of the decline to a decline in expected inflation. And, 

indeed, if you take the read, it’s basically consistent with expected inflation on PCE at 1.7 
percent. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’d like to start by noting that, by my count, 7 of 
today’s 10 presenters are women. In my short time as part of this Committee, this is a record, 
and it wouldn’t surprise me if this is actually an all-time record for the FOMC. I talk regularly 
about diversity—in economics, in finance, and at the Fed. I know my colleagues do as well. 
And outside the Fed, many are scrutinizing us on this dimension closely. Though there is 
certainly more to do on the diversity front, it is gratifying to see progress here, and I hope we 
continue to make strides regarding increasing diversity at all levels of our institution. 
CHAIR POWELL. Here, here. 
MR. BOSTIC. My outlook from the previous meeting remains intact. I still see the 
incoming data as largely confirming that the economy is currently achieving—and will likely 
continue to achieve—our dual mandate. But as much of the recent debate has been largely 
around the balance of risks about the economic outlook, I’d like to explain how I synthesize the 
disparity between some of the apparently stark downside risks to the outlook and my relatively 
sanguine view of the effect of these risks to date. 
We all have access to the same economic data, and we analyze these data through more 
or less the same sets of macroforecasting models. In addition, we can all easily identify the 
current areas of weakness in the economy—namely, business investment and the ongoing 
softness in the manufacturing sector. If this was all the evidence I had to go on, well, I’d be 
more concerned about the future stability of the economy. But it’s not. We’ve gathered input 
from hundreds of contacts to our regional economic information network, held multiple advisory 

councils, and have rigorously gathered and analyzed data on firm behavior and expectations 
through our surveys. These data—and, yes, I view them as such—offer an additional lens into 
the economic picture and yield rich, and often more nuanced, takes on the issues about the 
outlook. And through these firm-level insights, I have been unable to detect any signal that what 
we’re seeing in the standard macroeconomic data is a leading edge of a significant downturn. 
Over the past, well, several meetings now, the evidence continues to suggest that the 
uncertainties and downside risks buffeting the economy have yet to fundamentally alter business 
activity or firms’ collective outlook. And we have doggedly pushed our contacts in an effort to 
find cracks in their collective optimism to no avail. 
Regarding the effect of tariffs and trade tensions, the feedback that I receive and the 
survey evidence that my staff analyzes suggest that it is largely a nonissue for a majority of 
firms. For those firms in the industrial sector or those highly dependent on international activity, 
the effect is a bit more intense but still relatively moderate. And I also hear anecdotes describing 
adjustments to supply chains and alternative methods of tariff mitigation that highlight 
significant offsets that model-based estimates are not likely to capture. For example, one of my 
directors that oversees supply chain management for a global auto manufacturer outlined a low-
cost supply reconfiguration practice, under which they are able to swap country-of-origin 
locations with sister manufacturer locations as a tariff workaround. 
On the weakness in investment spending, I have pushed my contacts and directors hard to 
more deeply understand the reasons for the slowdown relative to 2018. The feedback I get does 
not suggest the clear one-for-one relationship between uncertainty and delayed investment. 
Rather, there is a mix between a pull forward of capital spending from the tax reform, an 
inability to find qualified labor to adequately staff expansionary capital projects, and, indeed, 

some risk-off behavior at the margin. Yet when pressed, my contacts almost to a person suggest 
that if all the uncertainties buffeting their outlook dissipated tomorrow, that still wouldn’t change 
their behavior regarding capital spending. 
A factor that weighs heavily in my thinking about the outlook is that most firms reported 
that consumer confidence and spending, especially discretionary spending, remain strong. 
Importantly, business leaders are paying close attention to any signal that consumer sentiment 
and spending appetite may shift, and there are no indications of that thus far. And they, like 
President Mester, do worry that we are talking ourselves into a recession. 
I’ll leave you with this. In our board meeting last week, we attempted to gauge the level 
of concern our directors have with the current outlook by developing a readiness meter similar to 
the military’s DEFCON system. We call this system “Business Activity Condition Levels,” 
which shortens to “B-A-CON,” or just “BACON” for short. [Laughter] 
BACON levels range from 1, for “All clear,” to 5, for “Conditions are heading into the 
tank.” Echoing the sentiment and evidence gathered from our various efforts to gauge the 
business community, the overwhelming sentiment from my directors was a BACON level of 2. 
For a small minority of responses, concern had reached a BACON level of 3, indicating cautious 
optimism. None of my directors indicated BACON levels of 4 or 5, which would be consistent 
with taking active steps to mitigate risk in the face of deteriorating business conditions. So until 
I see angst in the business community rise to a more palpable level or start to see signs of 
flagging consumer behavior, I’m holding to my previous forecast. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So, I’m from Philly—I’m going to have to come 
up with “SCRAPPLE.” [Laughter] 

So I found myself in general agreement with the staff forecast, although I am a bit more 
optimistic that inflation will return to target in 2021. That said, the low readings in market-based 
measures of longer-run expected inflation do continue to concern. The view that the economy is 
likely to experience trend-like growth is supported by data in the Third District as well as from 
my conversations with many of our contacts. Unemployment in the District is near historically 
low levels, although employment growth has noticeably moderated. The private labor force 
participation rate has ticked up, and we are seeing particularly strong growth in mining and 
construction—much stronger than what’s happening nationally. 
Like the nation, economic growth in the region is consumption led and driven by solid 
economic fundamentals. However, other sectors of the economy are not showing much growth. 
Our nonmanufacturing survey declined noticeably in October, but the details paint a somewhat 
more positive picture. Both new orders and sales appear healthy, and firms remain optimistic. 
Also, there is no evidence of price pressures, with 77 percent of firms reporting no change in the 
prices they charge. 
A recent conversation with the CEO of a very large gas and convenience store chain was 
particularly reassuring. He mentioned that almost a year before the previous recession, he saw 
shifts in the composition of purchases that indicated weakening consumer demand. He is 
currently not seeing any of those shifts, but he has me on speed dial in case that changes. 
Based on our business outlook survey, manufacturing in our region continues to 
outperform the nation. Although the current activity index has fallen below its nonrecessionary 
average, the details of the report are significantly more upbeat. If one were to use the subindexes 
to construct an index similar to the ISM index, that index would be solidly in expansionary 

territory. Current employment remains strong, and plans for future employment and capital 
expenditures remain strong as well. 
As I mentioned in our previous meeting, the divergence in our survey from others is 
probably due to the feature that manufacturers in our region are relatively less exposed to trade 
shocks, particularly trade shocks with China. Information from a diversified manufacturing firm 
in our District indicates that production of consumer goods is holding up very well. For 
example, demand for organic pet food remains strong. It is a great time to be a dog. [Laughter] 
However, he characterized other areas of this sector as “soft” and “cautious.” But plans for new 
activity remain reasonably healthy. The caution is expressing itself in a reluctance to build 
inventory, and, as a result, he’s seeing in his business much more spot buying. People aren’t 
willing to make the long-term bet right now, but they are continuing to buy. 
There have also been cutbacks in variable expenses and some workforce reductions, but 
no one seems to be pushing the panic button right now. Weakness continues in residential real 
estate, and the decline in mortgage rates has yet to have any noticeable effect on our housing 
market. As well, construction spending remains flat. 
So, to summarize, the District’s economy is growing modestly, with growth almost 
entirely driven by the consumer, which is in line with what we’re seeing nationally. The most 
recent data indicate that the recovery will continue to expand, and my forecast continues to 
project trend-like growth and a return of inflation to target. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Since our previous meeting, incoming data have 
been mixed. On the positive side, consumer spending and sentiment have held up fairly well. 
This is really not surprising, given lower interest rates and continued gains in household income. 

Even so, I’m starting to hear hints of slower spending ahead, and I guess this is the importance of 
having diversity of geography, because I’m really hearing something quite different from what 
we just heard. 
One contact at a national online payments processor reported very recent softness in 
activity, especially among small businesses, so we’ll have to see how this nets out and affects 
retail sales across the country. 
On the very negative side are manufacturing and investment, which continue to be held 
back by slowing foreign demand, higher tariffs, and trade uncertainty, and the fallout from these 
headwinds continues to spread, at least in the 12th District. 
Several contacts reported on a recent sharp slowdown in overseas sales and leasing of 
heavy equipment—cranes, to be exact—which is now spilling over into various supporting 
industries not just related to the cranes themselves, but all of the people who manufacture the 
parts for those cranes. 
Weak growth and pessimism resulting from trade tensions are also starting to materially 
affect or alter business planning. My contacts in business services noted that their clients with a 
global presence have started to cancel discretionary investment spending. They had just been 
delaying and delaying, hoping for an end to the trade disputes. For them, the Rubicon on trade 
has now been crossed. Even if current trade disputes were resolved tomorrow, they would take 
time to pause to reevaluate the resiliency of their global supply chains before making additional 
investments. 
The outlook for output growth abroad also remains troubling. The Tealbook has revised 
down projected real GDP growth for this year and next, and such revisions, as we talked about a 
moment ago, are now common—they have occurred in the past 9 out of 10 Tealbooks. I worry 

that future downside revisions are ahead. China is the newest reason for concern. Their latest 
published real GDP growth came in weaker than expected, but, as I mentioned in July, even 
these weaker numbers may be too high. 
In view of worries about the reliability of Chinese statistics, my colleagues Mark Spiegel 
and John Fernald developed an alternative index of cyclical activity in China. And while we’re 
talking about BACON, they call theirs the China Cat, which, if you’re a Grateful Dead fan, 
you’ll appreciate. [Laughter] This index, which relies on a range of more verifiable indicators, 
shows a much more pronounced slowdown since 2017, and, based on this work, I see the 
possibility of a larger-than-expected deceleration in China as a sizable downside risk for the 
global economic outlook. 
Now, against all of these crosscurrents buffeting the economy, the labor market has held 
up fairly well, with job growth still coming in a bit above its underlying trend. But what should 
we be aiming for in the labor market? On this question, I found the staff memo on 
unemployment benchmarks very useful. It helped clarify the difference between two important 
barometers of labor market health: the long-run natural rate of unemployment and the stable-
price level of unemployment. 
In San Francisco, we estimate and use both measures. We’ve noticed that deviations 
between these two measures are common, although they’ve been more pronounced in this cycle. 
We’ve mentioned this before, but this recent cyclical divergence is due to a variety of factors, 
including greater-than-usual recruiting intensity and the relaxation of hiring standards, which 
firms once judged to be something they couldn’t cross but now feel are much more malleable 
than they used to. This has served to reduce the stable-price level of unemployment, putting it 

notably below the long-run average unemployment rate that exists when there are no cyclical 
pressures. 
As I noted before, allowing the labor market to move beyond the long-run level of 
unemployment to this lower, stable-price level of unemployment has many advantages. As my 
coauthors and I found in our Brookings Papers article, historically disadvantaged groups, 
including women, African Americans, Hispanics, and those with less than a college degree, see 
disproportionate gains in key labor market outcomes when we are in these high-pressured states 
when you go to the short-term level. This benefits individuals and families, of course, but it also 
has longer-term benefits for the economy in the form of greater human capital accumulation. 
Now, still, as the memos noted and we’ve discussed in previous meetings, there could be 
unintended consequences in the labor market. A “hot” labor market could be drawing in workers 
whose long-run earnings potential is better served by continuing in school, but this is easy to 
investigate, so we turn to the data. The data show that the most significant increases in labor 
force participation since 2015 have been among workers aged 25 to 54, who are usually past the 
school accumulation age. The evidence also shows that only a very modest part of the increase 
has come among those of typical school age, between 16 and 24. Even more reassuring on this 
front is that school enrollment rates for young people aged 16 to 24 have not materially changed 
over this period, suggesting that investments in schooling have not declined. Taken together, the 
staff memo on unemployment benchmarks and ongoing research about the benefits and costs of 
running a very strong labor market reaffirm my view that the best way to find full employment is 
experientially, by seeing it in the wage and price data. 
Regarding inflation, recent news has only reinforced my concerns. Since our previous 
meeting, the Tealbook has again revised down inflation, with PCE inflation now projected to be 

only 1.4 percent this year. This would make 2019 the eighth consecutive year in which we have 
come up short on our inflation target. 
As I’ve noted at our previous meeting, such consistent one-sided misses have the 
potential to erode inflation expectations and reduce monetary policy space. I will speak more 
about this tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The pace of U.S. economic activity 
continues to be consistent with what was generally expected earlier this year. Despite concerns 
about the global manufacturing slowdown turning into a broader-based stagnation, the current 
2.1 percent Tealbook forecast for real GDP at the end of this year is identical to the March 
median SEP, and the unemployment rate is now running below the March projections. 
By and large, economic developments to date reflect conditions in place before our 
actions, so I take the continued strength to reflect the sound fundamentals expected back in 
March. To be sure, since the spring, the relative sources of strength have shifted somewhat. 
Trade tensions and geopolitical risks have affected manufacturing, trade, and business 
investment. But at least, so far, these negative developments have been offset by strength in the 
household sector, thus leaving the overall pace of growth of the economy in line with 
expectations. 
The cumulative easing of monetary policy undertaken in the second half of this year will 
start affecting real outcomes more meaningfully. A stable outlook next year and beyond, with a 
lower path of the federal funds rate, would imply that monetary policy is now calibrated to offset 
headwinds that were not apparent earlier in the spring. As already mentioned, headwinds at this 
point are in the forecast but not quite in current outcomes. 

The outlook in several foreign countries is being revised down on the heels of weak 
incoming data, but the effect of such revisions on the U.S. real GDP outlook is small. 
Business spending is forward looking, and there could be some signal in the recent 
pullback. Still, current earning reports and guidance have not led to noticeable declines in broad 
stock market indexes. In fact, quite the opposite. Moreover, it is now possible to make a case 
for a stronger consumption outlook, reflecting the unusual confluence of a high savings rate in 
the face of significant increases in household wealth. Households may now have the capacity 
and desire to funnel less of their income to savings. 
The policy easing so far could also be a form of insurance against adverse outcomes. In 
this respect, I believe the downside risks at this meeting have diminished somewhat since 
September. 
While the phase-one tariff agreement with China is not yet signed, it does appear that a 
pause from increasing tariffs is quite likely. A pause is certainly not a rollback, but it is more 
positive than what we expected at our September meeting. 
The likelihood of a hard Brexit was palpable at the September meeting. Though still 
uncertain, a hard Brexit seems less likely now. In addition, the attacks on Saudi oil production 
and the Iranian tanker could have generated a sharp increase in oil prices. And even though 
geopolitical risks from the Middle East remain elevated, the increase in oil production from 
fracking has made the economy much less susceptible to shocks. While none of these risks are 
eliminated, they do seem less elevated. 
Furthermore, to the extent that risks about the outlook are based on readings from the 
yield curve, I would note that work by my staff indicates that adding the stance of monetary 
policy to equations that use the slope of the yield curve to estimate recession probabilities 

significantly reduces current estimates of the likelihood of a recession in the next 12 months 
or so. 
While, by many measures, the downside risks to the outlook seem to have moderated, the 
financial risks that arise from very low rates were front and center in a roundtable discussion I 
had with private equity firms last week. Each firm highlighted the fact that “reaching for yield” 
behavior was causing clients to allocate more funds to their firms. Although they viewed the 
pricing as extremely “rich,” they felt it was most appropriate for them to remain fully invested. 
They reported that in the tech space, their investments had leverage of seven times EBITDA, and 
they emphasized weave adjustments. Many other deals have leverage of more than six times 
EBITDA. 
The private equity managers seem confident that, in a recession scenario, private equity 
firms would weather the turbulence, given that they have funds locked up for fixed periods and 
can make additional capital calls on investors already under contract. They did not discuss the 
potential loss to the firms they finance, especially spillovers that could occur in terms of job 
losses if they were forced to engage in radical restructurings. 
In my meetings with commercial real estate professionals, their biggest concerns were 
tied to very tight labor markets. From construction workers to property managers, they reported 
significant increases in salaries, which were causing costs to rise. While capitalization rates were 
seen as unusually low, they, too, emphasized the point that foreign investors, in particular, were 
flush with cash and looking to invest in CRE, despite the very “rich” pricing. 
The sustainability of the recovery is not paramount to firms with funds on hand looking 
to obtain yield. But sustainability is, of course, paramount to us. Lower rates now run the risk of 

a deeper and longer recession in the future—a topic that I will return to tomorrow. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The U.S. economy continues to slow down 
from its 2018 growth rate. Last year at this time, real GDP growth measured on a year-over-year 
basis exceeded 3 percent. When 2019:Q3 growth is released soon, it’s possible that the year-
over-year growth rate will have slowed down to below 2 percent. The main risk is that this 
slowdown continues or accelerates in the quarters ahead. My hope is that we are witnessing a 
bottoming-out in Q3, with more-rapid growth materializing in Q4 and the first half of next year, 
but at this point, we cannot be sure. 
Some of the main downside risks, which may be related to each other, include magnified 
global trade policy uncertainty, slower growth in the global economy, contraction in U.S. and 
global manufacturing, slowing U.S. business investment, and an inverted yield curve as 
measured by the 10-year Treasury yield-federal funds rate spread, which suggests that monetary 
policy may be too restrictive for the current environment. 
Let me comment on a few of these issues. On global trade policy uncertainty, I maintain 
that this will be very difficult to resolve any time soon. Despite announcements of partial 
agreements and so forth, I think this is a long-term issue. I think we have opened up Pandora’s 
box on global trade policy. 
One measure of the uncertainty around this issue is the Baker-Bloom-Davis index, which 
remains elevated and, I expect, will be elevated for some time to come. In my opinion, 
businesses will simply have to live with increased trade policy uncertainty. And for purposes of 

monetary policy, I do not think that we should assume this is going to go away. I think we 
should assume that it is here to stay over the forecast horizon. 
We also have slowing global growth. It now appears that most major economies will 
grow more slowly this year than would have been expected earlier this year or at this time last 
year. I rate this as a downside surprise. I think the slowing global real GDP growth, combined 
with the trade policy uncertainty, is chilling global investment and could feed on itself. 
Manufacturing looks like it’s in contraction. Global PMI for manufacturing is below 50. 
U.S. PMI for manufacturing is below 50. U.S. business investment was growing at about 
5 percent during 2017, 2018, and it has now slowed to about 1 percent. 
On the yield curve inversion, I think there has been some improvement during the 
intermeeting period. I think there might be some more improvement if we make a policy move 
at this meeting. Still, as of right now, the 10-year Treasury yield is below the federal funds rate. 
The 2 year–10 year spread has never quite inverted on a sustained basis. I take that as a good 
sign. I think that the 10-year was trading lower, but the 2-year rate incorporated some of the 
future moves of this Committee ahead of time and was never quite below the 10-year rate, so you 
had a slightly positive slope to that particular measure of the yield curve. That gives me some 
hope that we have moved rapidly enough to reduce the downside risk suggested, or the various 
signals suggested, by this particular measure of yield curve inversion. Inversion has been a 
source of elevated recession risk, which, I think, has been affecting the business outlook and 
business expectations during 2019. I think it would behoove this Committee to take this risk off 
the table if we can. 
In addition to these risks on the real side of the economy, I think we have the muted 
inflation problem. Inflation expectations, based on market-based measures, seem to me to be 

exceptionally low. Five-year TIPS break even at about 1.56, which seems crazy low to me. 
That’s a CPI-based measure. If you subtract 30 basis points from that, it means markets are 
expecting only about 1¼ percent inflation over the next five years. I think that should be a major 
concern for the Committee. Staff estimates taken at face value suggest the FOMC will not attain 
its inflation target over the forecast horizon. 
We have been cognizant of these risks as a committee. We have taken action during 
2019. There has been a major turnaround in U.S. monetary policy. This turnaround has been 
much bigger than the movements in the funds rate alone would suggest. At this time last year, 
we were projecting the policy rate was higher, and we were projecting further increases in the 
policy rate. That was reflected in the two-year rate. 
Since that time, we pulled back on those expectations during the January–February time 
frame. We started to reduce the policy rate during the summer, and looked poised to continue 
through that process at this meeting. The two-year has come down about 130 basis points over 
that period, so, in my mind, that is quite a big move as these things go. Much of this was not an 
actual policy move but a change in the monetary policy outlook, so that’s something like forward 
guidance off the effective lower bound, as others have mentioned earlier today. In my opinion, 
this is beginning to have a positive effect on some aspects of the economy, and I expect it will 
continue to do so into 2020. I regard that as a positive development. 
In conclusion, I think we have a slowing economy with some downside risk. I think 
insurance has been a sensible response to this situation. We’ve made important, and large, 
changes to monetary policy over the last year, but now it may be time to allow these changes to 
feed through the economy over the next six months or so and then reassess at that point. Even if 

incoming data are weaker than expected, we can argue that we already made preemptive rate 
reductions in anticipation of that possibility. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I remain comfortable with where things stand 
relative to our mandated objectives despite continued uncertainty. The labor market is still 
strong, with very low unemployment and low initial jobless claims. With the labor market this 
tight, I continue to hear stories of the misallocation of capital I discussed last time. Perhaps the 
ultimate example I heard is Goodwill. That’s the organization, not the balance sheet item 
[laughter], which I now understand is considering investing in automation because, even for this 
employer of last resort, labor is becoming too scarce and too expensive. 
Inflation is still firming. The first quarter weakness indeed seems to have been transitory. 
Currently, the shortfall in 12-month inflation is well within any range we might choose to specify 
for our inflation target, and new work by my staff shows that the small current shortfall in core 
reflects a few large price shocks as opposed to broad-based weakness. Their calculation is 
similar to a trimmed mean, but rather than use raw price changes to exclude items, they use price 
changes that are unusual relative to the past trend. They find that less than 10 percent of 
expenditures, ordered by absolute size of price shocks, account for more than the entire shortfall 
of core inflation. I take comfort from the shortfall being explained by a few idiosyncratic shocks 
rather than being widespread. I am disappointed that manufacturing and investment remain soft, 
but I am pleased that residential is picking up and auto sales are reasonably high. 
Like many of you, given recent data, I am watching consumer spending closely. What I 
see so far is broadly reassuring. Consumer sentiment is still near cyclical highs. The Richmond 

services survey rebounded in October, and contacts are reporting that their consumer businesses 
remain sound. 
The uncertainties we have discussed remain, although I agree with President Rosengren: 
They are, if anything, a bit down. The noise in China has abated. The Saudi refinery bombing 
didn’t lead to escalation. There’s a plan for an orderly Brexit. Markets are calmer. That said, 
other uncertainties continue to weigh on the economy. We have talked a lot about trade, but I 
also hear from my contacts frequently about regulatory and tax uncertainty in an unstable 
political environment. 
President Bullard mentioned the Baker-Bloom-Davis economic policy uncertainty index. 
It measures much of this, reached an all-time high in August, and remains elevated. The soon-
to-be Atlanta-Richmond-Duke CFO Survey reports that economic uncertainty and government 
policies are two of CFOs’ three biggest concerns. Moreover, there is a general sense of malaise 
about how these various uncertainties will be resolved—a negative skew, if you will—created by 
the lingering hangover from 2009 and seeming political hopelessness in an era of news ubiquity. 
This uncertainty affects consumer and business decisions. I’m influenced by the 2018 
work of Nick Bloom and coauthors. As they argue, uncertainties expand the range of inaction, 
whether it be investment or hiring. I might even add pricing. I think we see that weakness in 
recent data whenever uncertainty has spiked, and this rings true from my professional experience 
as well. 
As Bloom and coauthors also say, uncertainty limits the effectiveness of stimulus. 
They’ve showed this with wage subsidies. We’ve seen it on the fiscal side; as government 
spending increases and tax cuts spurred first-half 2018 growth in investment, the trade noise 
threw water on the fire. This same logic suggests that these uncertainties limit the effectiveness 

of our rate moves. Any effect of lower rates on business investment is overwhelmed by the 
hurdle caused by increased uncertainty. That’s what our contacts say. 
While interest-sensitive household spending is holding up, we’re not seeing the upside 
that we might have hoped for in response to the lowering of our expected policy rate path. We 
see that financial markets aren’t being moved day to day by our choices either, but instead by the 
daily back-and-forth on trade. As I will come back to tomorrow, we might consider whether, 
given this limitation, now is the right time for extra accommodation. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. I just want to echo President Bostic’s comments on the 
importance of diversity of all types to the quality of our work across the System and 
acknowledge that it’s a work in progress. 
Since our previous meeting, key downside risks have diminished, while financial 
conditions and the outlook are little changed, on net. The most notable change since the 
September meeting is that two important risks have diminished. First, the trade truce between 
the United States and China has bolstered sentiment and appears to reduce the risk that 
significant additional tariffs could hit consumer goods at a delicate time. 
Second, the tail risk of a no-deal Brexit has declined significantly, diminishing a risk that 
has been hanging over the United Kingdom and the euro area for the past year. I don’t think we 
should understate that. It would be worth thinking about what this meeting would be like if, in 
fact, the risk of a no-deal Brexit were still hanging over our considerations the day before that 
was supposed to take place. 
Reflecting these developments, the most notable change in financial markets since our 
September meeting has been a steepening in the yield curve. Similarly, almost every recession 

indicator that we track for the U.S. economy has declined during the intermeeting period, with 
some probabilities coming down as much as 10 percentage points. 
Beyond this, my modal outlook remains broadly similar to September. Recent data 
suggest economic activity has continued to expand at a moderate pace, though more slowly than 
in the first half. The U.S. consumer remains the bulwark undergirding continued U.S. real GDP 
growth at or above trend in an environment in which foreign economies are growing more 
slowly. By contrast, business investment, exports, and manufacturing production continue to 
point to weakness. 
In looking ahead, the key question is whether the deceleration we have seen reflects a 
stabilization to a near-potential pace with some bumps or, rather, the beginning of a more 
pronounced deterioration in the outlook. I will be paying close attention to the extent to which 
the ongoing weakness in manufacturing might be spilling over into services and whether the 
softness in business investment might start weighing on hiring. 
The September report suggests that conditions in the labor market have continued to 
improve overall, though more slowly than earlier in the year. Excluding temporary hires for the 
decennial census, total payroll has increased at an average of 150,000 per month in the third 
quarter after rising at a pace of about 165,000 in the first half. 
Even adjusting for the staff’s expected downward revisions to payroll gains based on the 
BLS’s preliminary benchmark estimates, job gains in the third quarter remain above the 
breakeven range. This is consistent with the broader picture, with the unemployment rate 
moving down further to a 50-year low, while the labor force participation rate held up at a 
relatively strong level. 

Looking at the decline in the job openings rate in recent months suggests that labor 
demand has cooled some but to a level that remains strong. Meanwhile, and importantly, layoff 
indicators, including weekly initial claims, have remained at very low levels. 
While we might see recent strike activity as evidence that bargaining power is finally 
improving cyclically after a long period of extreme weakness, this does not square with recent 
data, suggesting wage growth is plateauing near 3 percent. 
On the spending side, the incoming data are mixed. On the one hand, the latest 
information on consumer spending remains solid despite some slowing in retail sales from a very 
strong pace in earlier months. Surveys show that consumers still feel good about jobs and 
incomes, although sentiment has been somewhat more volatile of late. 
In the housing sector, conditions seem to have turned the corner and now point to positive 
growth in the second half. Autos and other consumer durables also show signs of a pickup 
supported by lower borrowing rates. By contrast, business investment and exports continue to 
point to modest declines in the second half, while manufacturing suggests that activity will likely 
move about sideways. Net of transitory factors, including the GM strike, my modal outlook is 
for GDP to grow at a near potential pace in the second half. 
Internationally, the outlook hasn’t changed materially since we last met. Growth in 
China slowed to a weak 5½ percent in the third quarter, but some of this reflects temporary 
factors. In the euro area, manufacturing output declined further, and services activity has also 
turned down, raising concerns that manufacturing weakness might be spreading, but the 
unemployment rate has continued to decline, nominal wage growth has been trending up, and 
monetary policy has turned more accommodative—which should support domestic demand. 

As for inflation, incoming data have been about in line with my expectations, on net, and 
consistent with our earlier assessment that much of the outsized weakness earlier in the year was 
transitory. Nonetheless, inflation remains below our 2 percent objective, as it has for a very long 
time, and a variety of measures suggest underlying trend inflation also remains below target. 
Against this backdrop, the latest readings on long-run inflation expectations in both of the 
consumer surveys have been on the soft side. 
To conclude: Although the bulk of evidence points to an economy that’s stabilizing at a 
near-trend pace, because we are at a fragile juncture, I’ll be looking for signs that might suggest 
a more significant slowing. The balance of risks is still tilted to the downside, but it has 
improved. 
Against the backdrop of muted inflation, I have supported taking out insurance against 
these downside risks previously, which has helped support the modal outlook. 
After tomorrow’s move, I hope we will have some time in the months ahead to assess 
how policy is flowing through to activity and financial conditions and whether we are seeing 
stabilization consistent with a flat path or deterioration that might warrant further 
accommodation. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Messages received from my contacts were very 
similar to what I reported at the September meeting. Consumer-facing businesses continue to 
report strong sales. No cracks are showing here. 
One upbeat report was from the CEO of a major airline who, as President Mester 
worried, earlier had been concerned that we were talking ourselves into a recession. He now 

says bookings for domestic and business travel are showing no signs of slowing. International 
demand continues to hold up as well. 
In contrast, manufacturing continues to be held back by trade policy uncertainty and a 
weak global outlook. At least in the United States, the picture does not appear to be getting 
worse, but it is getting worse in Europe. The best we heard was that the rate of decline in 
manufacturing had stabilized. It’s still headed down, though. 
Of course, in my District, the GM strike left an imprint on manufacturing throughout the 
auto supply chain. And, reportedly, some GM plants that produced high-demand vehicles were 
at full capacity before the strike, so it might take some time to make up all of the lost output if 
they can do it at all. 
More generally, I continue to hear that employers are ramping up training, and that 
individuals previously on the fringes are able to find jobs and more firmly cement their 
attachment to the labor force. This clearly has positive spillovers for their families and for their 
communities. These were important themes at our Fed Listens meeting held recently in Chicago. 
Still, despite all of the signs of a tight labor market, I’m not hearing about any pickup in wage 
growth, nor did I hear anything new about inflation. No one is talking about price pressures. 
I’ll turn now to the national outlook. My forecast of real GDP growth is essentially the 
same as the previous round and is broadly in line with the Tealbook. So is my path for the 
unemployment rate, though our Chicago Fed assumption for the natural rate is lower than the 
Tealbook’s. 
For inflation conditional on a clearly accommodative path for monetary policy, I have 
core inflation moving up to target in 2021 and overshooting by two-tenths in 2022. This 
overshooting is by design. It is aimed specifically at boosting inflation expectations to be 

symmetric around 2 percent and thus sustainably deliver on our inflation goal. This has been my 
forecast narrative for some time. 
What about risks? This round my staff did an exercise to consider what plausible shocks 
could move us away from our baseline forecast. Not surprisingly, it was a lot easier for them to 
think about downside risks than upside ones. Still, the shocks they identified ended up 
generating only modestly lower growth. Of course, aggregation isn’t straightforward, and the 
exercise didn’t try to account for correlation among the shocks. Still, I was reminded that it is 
very difficult to forecast a downturn. We have seen it time and again in Tealbook alternative 
scenarios. To generate a recession, you generally have to pile together shocks and throw in a big 
negative reaction in financial markets. 
Today, crunching the incoming data leaves us with a baseline forecast of growth near 
potential. This is a positive outcome for a mature expansion, and the likelihood of achieving it 
seems fairly good. Indeed, most recession-probability models currently are generating less-than-
overwhelming risks of a downturn. But, then, there are many things that we can’t model very 
well, like that list of potential downside surprises my staff came up with or the sense of fragility 
in business sentiment, and there is the still-palpable risk that some agglomeration of shocks, 
together with a shift in confidence, could produce a recession. 
I will say that President Rosengren led a strong tour of the September risks at our FOMC 
meeting and argued well that they are lower now. That said, I still favor having a risk-
management buffer in place as insurance to support the expansion. Of course, determining the 
right size of that buffer is hard and includes a lot of judgment. The same goes for deciding on 
the appropriate way to communicate this strategy. 

We face some tough balancing acts. I guess if I go any further I’ll go into monetary 
policy, so I’ll stop there. [Laughter] Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Consistent with the national economy, 
Texas growth continues to moderate, although the unemployment rate remains at a historically 
low 3.4 percent. Our business surveys indicate that manufacturing activity in Texas is slowing, 
and business investment continues to be weak. As President Barkin talked about, a lot of this, 
though, could be attributed to “uncertainty,” and I’ll just go through some of the items that we’re 
talking to contacts about. 
Number one, estimates of world trade growth are the slowest since 2009, and, consistent 
with that, estimates of global growth are the slowest since 2009. Most of our contacts were very 
relieved about the little mini agreement between the United States and China, and they are glad 
that it happened, and they’re hopeful it will get done, and it’s welcome. The part that they’re 
more concerned about is, they’re hearing from contacts in the government that it is likely that the 
strategy will not take off the existing tariffs. So although the last 5 percent isn’t going on, there’s 
no prospect that the existing tariffs are coming off, and they get the sense that these may actually 
be on for years. They also get the sense that tariffs and, to some extent, sanctions are now a 
feature of government policy, and so trade uncertainty for them is still relatively high. They also 
cite that the economy has now expanded for 123 consecutive months, the longest on record. 
That is in the spirit of talking yourself into a downturn. That is on people’s minds. 
The other thing is, we’ve been hearing about labor shortages for a long time in our 
District. The thing I’m hearing more about from firms is the inability to find engineers, and, for 
us, this is a big deal along the Gulf, where there’s big building in petrochemicals and refiners. 

We hear it from high-tech companies, which now have a big presence in our state. What that’s 
causing people to do is also hold off on investment, because they need engineers. When we ask 
them what the problem is, they mention that they’re competing with other states, like California. 
Also, Texas is probably not producing enough engineers. And then the immigration issue: A 
number of the engineers they used to get came through immigration, and they don’t have that 
source right now. These are some of the factors that are being cited. 
Despite all of that, our forecast for the U.S. economy is very similar to the Tealbook’s, 
which would be 1.5, 1.6 percent real GDP growth for the second half of this year. We continue 
to expect consumption to remain solid and to be a solid contributor in the second half to GDP 
growth. 
There was a little concern about PCE growth being weak in August and retail sales being 
weaker, and we’ll just continue to watch that, but it still makes sense to me and to us that the 
consumer should be in good shape because of the consumer balance sheets as well as a tight job 
market. 
I would note, as many have said, that the Dallas trimmed-mean inflation rate continues to 
run around 2 percent, but we do take note about the recent University of Michigan expected 
inflation rate falling to 2.2 percent, which is historically low. And we also noted the rise in the 
share of people expecting zero or negative inflation rates at the five-year horizon, and we’re 
trying to figure out what to make of it. But I would tell you, we are continuing to watch that. 
That was notable to us. 
Now, back to energy. Though we’ve got broad-based growth in the state, energy is 
declining, and I guess in President Bostic’s lingo, this would be BACON 5 [laughter], and 
nobody is making any bones about that. U.S. net production growth was about 1.8 million 

barrels last year. We expect it to be about 800,000 barrels net in 2019, and next year we think it 
will be below 500,000 barrels net growth. Now, some of that is the rapid decline in shale 
production, but some of it is just—there’s not cap-ex being spent on drilling, and as I’ve said to 
you before, people are just completing existing wells. We think the number of oil rigs in the 
United States has fallen nearly 20 percent since December 2018, and this industry is a good 
example of weak global growth affecting the price of the commodity. There would be a big 
difference in activity if the price was $60 versus $45 to $50. 
We talked in our previous meeting about the effect of the Saudi attack, and we said then 
there wasn’t great transparency on “how,” but the Saudis have assured the world that they will 
somehow make up for the 5.7 million barrels, and it appears that they have somehow made up 
for the 5.7 million barrels. They haven’t been that transparent. How much has come from 
reserves? How much has come from restoring damage done? Ironically, the price today is a bit 
lower than before that attack. I had said after that, we thought there might be a $3 to $5 premium 
in the global price of oil. It doesn’t appear to have happened. 
Returning to issues I mentioned earlier about credit risk. If you look at notable triple-Bs, 
they could get downgraded to double-B. Some of the leading candidates are probably in the 
energy sector. We’re watching this carefully. When we do look at the analysis, mainly done by 
third parties, the margin of error is pretty low. At $60, they’re not going to get downgraded, and 
at $45 to $50, it looks to us like some of these credits will get downgraded, and these are sizable. 
I won’t mention individual names, but we’re watching some individual names. These are sizable 
names. We’ll see what happens. 
Anyhow, in summary, we’re hopeful that we’re going to grow at potential, but we’re 
recognizing it’s like flying a plane where not all of the engines are working. We’ve got solid 

consumption growth, a bit of improvement in residential investment—likely helped by a 
substantial decline in the long-term interest rates, and obviously mortgage rates—but we’re not 
getting any support from business investment or exports or manufacturing. 
And though households continue to view the economy favorably, we’re watching for 
whether some of this weakness will seep into other parts of the economy. We’re hopeful that we 
will be able to manage through this, but we’re continuing to monitor this carefully. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. My baseline outlook for the domestic economy 
has not changed since the September meeting. Output growth still looks to be a little slower but 
still solid for 2019—not as strong as last year, but still positive. It’s possible and probably likely 
that real GDP growth will slow a little further next year, but my forecast is that it will remain 
near its long-run trend rate. 
On the labor market side, I expect employment to remain healthy, but with the pace of 
payroll growth slowing for the rest of this year and into next, yet still at a pace able to 
accommodate new entrants into the labor force without putting upward pressure on the 
unemployment rate. The current national unemployment rate of 3½ percent is extremely low, 
and my expectation is that it will hold steady or even decline over the next year. Many factors 
lead me to this view, but in particular, I just don’t see that the interaction between wages and 
unemployment is functioning in a way that in the past would indicate the bottom of the 
unemployment rate. 
While there have been a few indications that growth in labor demand and hiring have 
cooled, I continue to hear from business contacts that they’re expanding efforts to attract new 

hires by loosening pre-employment requirements, like mandatory drug testing, offering signing 
bonuses, and flexible schedules. I have also heard from several firms that are creating in-house 
training programs in an effort to respond to the shortage of skilled workers. This is especially 
true for the community bankers that I’ve met with over the past several months. 
But I’d also like to note that this labor picture is very different across the country. In my 
recent travels and conversations, I’ve heard from some who do not see the low national 
unemployment rate as representative of their own local or regional experience. And I’m 
concerned that there are still areas of the country—many rural and pocketed urban areas—where 
in which a sizable share of the population still feels left behind in the economic progress we’ve 
made since the recession. 
To shift to inflation, the limited incoming data we’ve received since the September 
meeting have been roughly in line with my expectations, and I see merit to the staff predictions 
that year-over-year changes will rise above 2 percent for a bit and then settle down slightly 
below that level by the middle of next year. In my view, several downside risks to the economic 
outlook have eased since the September meeting. Most importantly, trade tensions have eased 
and even improved somewhat in recent weeks, and the likelihood of a no-deal Brexit has eased 
considerably. Even with these recent positive developments, the outlook for trade both here and 
abroad remains uncertain. In particular, concerns about slowing in foreign activity persist. 
It’s possible that weak U.S. business investment data reflect the softening in global 
demand and that trade uncertainty is hindering activity in the nonfinancial business sector. 
Exports have been weak so far this year, and U.S. manufacturing output has been 
declining, influenced, I’m sure, by the GM strike and ongoing concerns about Boeing. 

Data on business confidence and new orders for capital goods are signaling further 
weakness through the end of this year. 
In a shift to the ag sector, corn and soybean harvests are well under way, with varying 
projections on yields due to earlier wet conditions. Commodity prices have increased slightly on 
the strength of expectations of China’s committed purchases of soybeans, with many farmers 
holding onto harvested crops in storage in search of higher prices on this news. It may be several 
more weeks before yields are confirmed, but expectations are lower than in previous years. 
On the positive side, the deterioration infarm financials seems to have slowed—they’re 
still not improving, but also not significantly worsening. For many producers, USDA’s 
supplemental payments have bridged this year’s shortfall gap, enabling many to meet financial 
payments and other operating expenses. However, we are continuing to see Chapter 12 
bankruptcies trend higher, with the largest numbers in states with small and midsized dairies and 
a notable increase, though modest, in states concentrated in corn and soybean production. 
To shift to the consumer side, the national data continue to suggest that households are 
faring generally well. Consumer spending growth has stepped down from the elevated pace we 
observed in the second quarter, but the data on retail sales and new motor vehicle sales suggest 
spending has been rising at a pace well above 2 percent. Additionally, recent readings on 
consumer sentiment rebounded from the sharp drop that we saw in August. 
With all of this in mind, I continue to be optimistic that the U.S. economy is fairly well 
positioned to withstand the economic headwinds coming from softening demand from abroad. I 
see the latest developments as consistent with my expectation that economic growth would ease 
this year but would also remain healthy. I would note, however, that this outcome has been 
achieved with the support of a lower policy rate, and while the downside risks to my outlook for 

U.S. economic performance have eased somewhat since September, they have remained 
prominent. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The 10th District economy continues to 
expand, and labor markets remain historically tight. Most areas within our region with higher 
year-over-year employment growth have also seen increases in labor force participation. This 
has coincided with steady growth in real personal income in the District, which has supported 
continued growth in consumer spending. 
Outside energy and agriculture, capital expenditures have continued to expand, but 
expectations of future spending have moved lower. District contacts, who indicated they delayed 
expenditures, reported that the primary reasons were tied to lower expectations of future demand 
as well as general uncertainty, especially around trade policy. 
Manufacturing activity continues to contract but almost entirely in durable 
manufacturing, especially among contacts who report direct exposure from the trade war with 
China. 
Our energy contacts expect oil prices to be range-bound between $50 and $60 per barrel 
over the next year, with less credit availability. This outlook suggests that oil and gas activity in 
our region will likely remain muted in the near term. Consistent with this outlook, we’re 
beginning to hear about layoffs at some District energy companies. 
Finally, as Governor Bowman just noted, the fall harvest is under way, and the corn and 
soybean prices have firmed recently because of expectations of lower yields and some optimism 
surrounding the negotiations related to U.S. ag exports to China. Most of our District contacts, 

however, have noted that there has been very little improvement in farm-sector profitability from 
one year ago and generally expect conditions to remain weak in the coming months. 
For the national economy, my outlook calls for moderate growth, with ongoing weakness 
in some segments of the economy. Although downside risks have not worsened since our 
previous meeting and may have gotten somewhat better, they remain prominent in my forecast, 
and I’m closely monitoring incoming data to assess whether the economy is slowing more than 
expected. 
Moderate growth in household spending continues to be the primary driver of overall 
growth in the economy. While consumer confidence has fluctuated amid trade uncertainty, 
measures of consumer sentiment have generally remained near their post-recession highs. Solid 
consumer momentum supported by a strong labor market provides the underpinnings of my 
outlook of continued strength in consumption. That could change, of course, if confidence 
falters. Several District bankers reported that even as customers were taking advantage of 
refinancing mortgages, some were also paying off lines of credit in anticipation, they noted, of a 
downturn in the economy. Likewise, some bankers noted that commercial deposits were 
growing over the past few months as businesses were positioning for potential buying 
opportunities in the event of a downturn. 
Residential investment has rebounded as households respond to lower mortgage rates, 
and the recent positive readings on single-family new home starts and permits point to a positive 
contribution from real estate investment to economic growth in coming quarters. 
As labor markets have tightened, the pace of payroll growth has decelerated over the past 
year. Private nonfarm payroll growth has increased by an average of 119,000 jobs per month 
over the past three months, roughly half the average monthly increase in the fourth quarter of 

2018. While some deceleration in payroll growth is to be expected in a tight labor market, signs 
of moderation in labor demand are evident. And measures of nominal wage growth, including 
average hourly earnings and the ECI, show that wage pressures have moderated over the past six 
months. This deceleration in employment growth remains roughly in line with my modal 
outlook for the medium term, but I’ll be watching closely for signs of waning labor demand, 
especially in the service-providing sector. 
The manufacturing sector remains under pressure amid a variety of headwinds. Near-
term issues related to the Boeing 737 Max grounding and the GM auto strike have weighed 
heavily on the manufacturing sector. Even excluding transportation though, year-over-year 
growth of durable goods orders has decelerated sharply since July of last year, reflecting 
negative effects due to a strong dollar, tariffs, and a slowing global economy. 
The weakness in manufacturing is likely to weigh on business investment for some time. 
With weak global growth, my outlook calls for inflation to remain low and stable. Inflation 
expectations have softened as both survey and market measures are at or near all-time lows. And 
while the usual relationship between oil price and inflation expectations partially explains the 
recent decline, inflation swap rates for five-year, five-year-forward contracts are near all-time 
lows in both the euro area and the United States, suggesting global factors may be at work in 
driving the synchronized decline of long-run inflation expectations. My modal outlook calls for 
real GDP growth to stabilize near its trend rate, heading into next year. But risks to the outlook 
for real activity and inflation remain tilted to the downside. 
Fears of a disorderly Brexit and an escalation in U.S. trade tensions have certainly eased, 
but heightened levels of uncertainty seem likely to persist. I will be watching the data and 
listening carefully to our business contacts for signs that these risks either materialize or 

sufficiently affect business and consumer confidence so as to negatively affect my modal 
outlook. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. By my assessment, the domestic economy 
remains in a good spot, in the phrase of a wise man, and if this were an SEP round, I would be 
unlikely to change my forecast. 
I do expect growth in the economy to slow somewhat through the rest of this year but 
then to grow at a reasonably healthy pace over the next few years. That said, I acknowledge 
there have been some discouraging signs in the recent data. And risks to the outlook, although 
they have diminished since our previous meeting, are to the downside, as the economists say. I 
mean that in a good way. 
On the positive side, the labor market remains strong, pending Friday’s release. Labor 
force participation has stayed higher than might be expected. The employment-to-population 
ratio has climbed to its highest point in a decade. Job growth has slowed somewhat this year, 
but in view of the tightness in the labor market and the laws of mathematics, that’s not terribly 
surprising. 
It’s also encouraging that inflation has increased a notch. Inflation, as assessed by some 
perfectly reasonable measures, is solidly at our target, and even core PCE inflation is now 
running at 1.7 percent, which is not far from our objective and not a level that I find at all 
concerning, especially keeping in mind the point that President Mester made at the outset of this 
round about the cost of being poor. 
Less encouraging has been the continued weakness in manufacturing, investment and 
exports. Developments at Boeing and GM are certainly playing a role, but the weakness in 

manufacturing seems to be fairly widespread. The box in the Tealbook, I think, makes a 
compelling case that recent tariff hikes, both by increasing manufacturing input costs and by 
curtailing access to foreign markets, have played an important role in the current weakness of 
manufacturing. 
In addition to the higher tariffs, the increased uncertainty regarding global trade policy 
has likely weighed on investment. It’s been noted that there seems to be some progress in the 
U.S.–China trade talks, but we are hardly out of the woods, and with the possibility of tariffs on 
European autos before the end of the year, trade policy developments could continue to disrupt 
the outlook for some time. I agree with President Bullard on that point. 
One final point. Coming out of the IMF–World Bank meetings two weeks ago, it was 
striking how synchronized the global growth story is. It seems as though almost every economy 
of whatever size or whatever level of development is experiencing a combination of sluggish real 
GDP growth, a strong or even record-setting labor market, and inflation below its targets. 
Similarly, investment is slumping everywhere, as is manufacturing. With such 
commonality, it’s likely that some of the current malaise must reflect a shared global factor. 
Trade tensions are an obvious culprit. Uncertainty about the future of the global trading system 
must be playing a role, but perhaps the story is broader than that. 
Narratives are important in driving business activity, especially investment, and 
economic activity more broadly as well. Up until the crisis, we had two decades of relatively 
strong global growth, with a fundamental economic narrative of increased globalization 
spearheaded by China’s rapid integration into the global economy. With China slowing largely 
for organic reasons and the prospect of globalization shifting into reverse, the question is: Are 
we lacking a compelling economic narrative to drive growth? Thank you, Mr. Chair. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll start with the local economy. Growth in 
the Ninth District is characterized as slight. Surveys indicate that most firms plan to continue 
hiring somewhat but also expect wage growth to slow somewhat. Most firms are expecting 
nonwage input costs to rise only slowly. Consumer spending looks mixed, manufacturing is 
weakening, and, as others noted, agriculture continues to struggle. 
I’ll now turn to the national economy. To start with, more than 10 years into the 
expansion, inflation remains below target. Reaching 2 percent seems as elusive as ever. Since 
our September meeting, survey measures of inflation expectations have declined further. Both 
the Michigan and the New York Fed surveys are now at record lows. 
Now, probabilities based on option prices that the Minneapolis Fed calculates indicate a 
risk of inflation below 1 percent of 28 percent, compared with only a 2 percent risk of inflation 
exceeding 3 percent. That’s a pretty substantial downside risk. 
The Tealbook forecasts core PCE at 1.7 percent for 2019 and 1.8 percent over the rest of 
the forecast horizon, and this forecast is predicated on no recession. Obviously, inflation will fall 
even further below target if we end up back at the effective lower bound. And while this is 
happening, nominal wage growth has slowed and is now below 3 percent. Given labor 
productivity growth of around 1.8 percent, this appears to be well below the level required to put 
upward pressure on price inflation. 
For the real economy, there have been more signs since our September meeting that the 
U.S. economy is slowing. We’re not in a recession—and I hope we will avoid one—but we have 
hit a soft patch. Consumption growth has held up reasonably well. Retail sales fell in 
September, but I hope that was just a blip. 

The latest data releases point to ongoing weak business investment. Durable goods 
orders are down 5.4 percent over the past 12 months. Some of that’s Boeing and GM, but not all 
of it. PMI for manufacturing is at its lowest level since the Great Recession at 47.8, indicating a 
contraction. New export orders are only at 41. 
Residential investment, in contrast, looks positive. The turnaround in housing starts, as 
we discussed earlier, coincides with our “pivot” toward more accommodative monetary policy. 
That’s a good thing. It’s reassuring that stimulus is showing up exactly where we would 
expect it. 
The notable step-down in payroll growth starting in the beginning of 2019, I think, is 
meaningful. I don’t take much comfort from the fact that jobs are growing with the replacement 
rate. I mean, they should be growing faster than the replacement rate or than population growth. 
The ADP data suggest that the true decline might be even sharper. And it’s notable that job 
openings in the JOLTS turned down around the same time. Declining overtime hours also 
suggest that the labor market is softening. 
Are we out of slack? I don’t think so. It’s hard to reconcile the slowing job growth with 
slowing wage growth. I think, more likely, the economy is just slowing, and we’re not running 
out of workers. 
To turn to the global economy: Risks to the outlook due to weak global real growth are 
high and rising. The global economy is slowing. The Tealbook has revised down its foreign 
economic outlook yet again. There’s been weak real growth in all of our major trading partners, 
and the OECD composite leading indicators continue to decline. It’s currently at the lowest 
levels in this expansion. 

Finally, I’ll just mention the yield curve. The yield curve inversion looks a little better 
now, on account of the changing path at the front end due to monetary policy. That’s good news, 
but I don’t take much comfort from the overall rate environment. I agree with President 
Bullard—the fact that the 10-year Treasury yield is still a little bit below the federal funds rate, to 
me, suggests monetary policy is pretty close to neutral or maybe slightly contractionary. I think 
if we cut rates tomorrow, that’ll be a positive step, which will help. But I think we should be 
providing some accommodation to the economy. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We’ve seen some tentative 
encouraging signs on U.S.–China trade and on Brexit. And the latest developments in the 
nation’s capital suggest that the clouds may be lifting. I am, of course, speaking of the World 
Series. [Laughter] 
Although the Nationals have never played in a World Series before, the Washington 
Senators did play in two, back in 1924 and 1933. Careful historical and econometric analysis 
reveals that when the Washington team won the series, the following year, the economy grew 
around 2½ percent. That’s based on Christy Romer’s very careful study. That’s a good number 
that would, I think, be an improvement, actually, on the Tealbook forecast. However, when the 
Senators lost, the economy soared a staggering 10.8 percent in the following year. And this is 
one source of uncertainty that will be resolved very soon—probably tonight. [Laughter] Ouch. 
[Laughter] I knew this would not go over well. 
Okay. Despite these developments, policy and geopolitical uncertainty are unlikely to 
vanish anytime soon. The already weak global growth outlook deteriorated further over the 
intermeeting period. We continue to see discouraging signs in many economies—Germany, 

Japan, Brazil, Mexico, and China. And, as seen in the Tealbook forecast, a record of downward 
revisions to the global outlook for 2019 is now spilling into 2020, reflecting persistent headwinds 
dragging down the global economy—and Beth Anne’s hopes to get into college. [Laughter] 
The global growth slowdown has already taken a toll on domestic growth. Actually, I am 
reminded that, back in the day, these essays didn’t matter at all for when I got into college, and 
this is one of the advantages of being older. I now expect U.S. GDP growth to be slightly below 
potential in the second half of the year. Consumption growth, though still solid, has shown signs 
of moderating; investment is stuck in the doldrums; and the manufacturing contraction has 
continued to deepen. 
Although the labor market remains strong, job growth has clearly shifted down a gear or 
two. In this regard, I really appreciated the memo on unemployment rate benchmarks, as I think 
this is very helpful as we think more carefully about our assessments of the cyclical position of 
the economy relative to our maximum-employment and price-stability mandates and, actually, 
will also help us as we think about the long-run goals and strategy document. 
On the inflation side, despite some signs of firming, inflation remains low, and there are 
no signs pointing to a sustained return to 2 percent soon. Furthermore, several measures of 
inflation expectations remain low. The analysis presented in the Tealbook box on an index of 
common inflation expectations, something that Governor Clarida commented on, as well as 
recent related work by my staff, shows that inflation expectations declined significantly since 
2012. And I do not take much comfort from the fact that the common inflation expectations 
factor appears to have stopped falling. Instead, I would have hoped that we would now be 
making progress reversing the past declines. 

A number of hypotheses have been proposed that try to explain the pattern of persistently 
low inflation and inflation expectations despite historically low unemployment. One candidate 
explanation centers on changes in market power in both labor and product markets. And, 
according to this narrative, rising concentration has generated an increase in firms’ market power 
in labor and goods markets, contributing to a decline in the labor share and, potentially, a 
flattening of the Phillips curve. 
Now, my staff has put all of these claims about trends and market concentration under the 
microscope. Their research shows that market concentration has actually declined in labor 
markets and remained broadly stable in product markets, contradicting some of these potential 
explanations for the behavior of inflation. Underlying this analysis is the recognition that firms 
compete for labor mostly in local markets, not national markets. This is based on the empirical 
observation that most moves are local, occurring within the same county, and most jobs are filled 
by workers who reside in the same state. The annual interstate migration rate for job-related 
reasons is less than 1 percent. 
Specifically, my staff used commuting zones that partition geographic space—
maximizing the observed commuting flows within areas and minimizing flows across areas—to 
define local labor markets. Using the census data, they find that even though employment 
concentration has risen nationally from 1976 to 2014, concentration in local labor markets 
declined over that period. For product markets, their analysis shows that once you account for a 
rising number of foreign importers—so, competition from foreign producers—product market 
concentration in manufacturing has been stable over the past few decades. So this research tells 
us that we need to look beyond labor market concentration to understand stubbornly low 
inflation that we’ve seen in the past several years. 

Now, there are other hypotheses that also require careful evaluation like this. But these 
results suggest applying caution in embracing so-called structural explanations for persistently 
low inflation. Instead, I remain drawn to the explanation that Milton Friedman provided more 
than 50 years ago, and that is: “Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon.” 
So instead of blaming forces outside the purview of monetary policy for low inflation, we should 
look at what we ourselves control. In a world of global low r* and the lower bound, inflation 
and inflation expectations will inexorably become anchored at too low a level unless we can 
consistently act to offset this downward bias. Of course, to my mind, this is the crux of the 
framework review. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And thanks, everyone, for your comments. The data 
have been mixed and the risk picture has evolved since the September meeting, but the baseline 
outlook for the economy remains a broadly favorable one, albeit with elevated risks to the 
downside. Thanks to the consumer, the overall economy has proved resilient over the course of 
the year despite significant crosscurrents, downside risks, and see-sawing financial markets often 
driven by trade developments. I attribute that resilience in some part to the adjustments to policy 
that we’ve made over the course of the year. 
While the outlook remains favorable, both the slowing in activity and the downside risks 
continue to call for caution and careful monitoring. Real GDP has slowed significantly since last 
year and is growing at about trend, or 2 percent, for the year, although it’s worth noting that 
growth was 2½ percent in the first half and is expected to be 1½ percent in the second half. 
Household spending continues at a solid pace, propelled by a strong job market and solid 
consumer confidence. More signs are emerging that lower interest rates are supporting consumer 
demand. 

Business investment, manufacturing, and exports remain weak, restrained by the 
synchronized global slowdown and trade uncertainty. A major risk is that the weakness in 
manufacturing, investment, and exports will begin to undermine household confidence and 
spending, the engine that has been driving the expansion. 
With the unemployment rate at 3½ percent and prime-age labor force participation 
having risen, the labor market is in a strong position. The unemployment rate has declined, and 
the household survey has been strong—stronger than the establishment survey. Payroll jobs 
have slowed from about 190,000 jobs per month in 2018 to slightly above breakeven at 135,000 
so far this year, in both cases after adjusting for expected revisions. Job openings have declined, 
and some survey measures of labor market tightness have moved down as well. Growth in 
several measures of wages and benefits has slowed this year, suggesting less labor market 
tightness. Household confidence remains very positive, if a bit off its recent highs. 
The staff now expects core PCE inflation at 1.7 percent for the year. Inflation 
expectations from household surveys are low, and some surveys have moved lower. Breakevens 
remain low. There is a risk that inflation will fail to reach, let alone move symmetrically around, 
2 percent during this long cycle. The concern is not simply that inflation expectations may be 
anchored a few tenths below 2 percent, it is also that disinflationary pressures are evident around 
the world, and we should not assume that we are exempt. When the next downturn comes, we 
do not want to see our inflation expectations sliding down inexorably, as they did in Japan and 
are now doing in Europe. 
The risks are asymmetric to the downside and have called for policy that supports the 
expansion and provides upward thrust to demand and thus inflation. I see the reductions we’ve 

made to our policy rate as being very much in that spirit. It also means that our review should 
forthrightly address the problem of anchoring expectations at 2 percent. 
Regarding downside risks, global growth forecasts have been broadly marked down again 
since the September meeting, including those of many private forecasters, the staff, and the IMF. 
The overall tone at the IMF–World Bank meetings a couple of weeks ago was indeed quite 
striking, and it is a synchronized global slowdown, albeit one that doesn’t yet amount to a global 
recession. Nonetheless, it bears close watching. 
On a brighter note, the geopolitical risk picture is showing some tentative signs of 
improving. The Saudi attack seems to have not had significant effects on the oil market. The 
possible phase-one trade agreement with China, if it is signed as planned, could be the beginning 
of a broad reduction in trade tensions, which could allow business confidence to recover and 
support activity over time—or not. We will learn more in coming weeks. What one reads is that 
the Chinese position is that they want all tariffs off in exchange for this deal. So there’s plenty of 
risk if this deal doesn’t get done. We’ll see. Brexit developments do seem to have materially 
lowered the likelihood of a disruptive no-deal exit, and other risk situations continue, including 
Hong Kong and renewed turmoil in the Middle East. 
Anyway, turning to policy, I see it as appropriate to make a 25 basis point cut at this 
meeting while signaling that we view the current stance of monetary policy as likely to remain 
appropriate as long as the economy performs broadly in line with our expectations. Of course, if 
developments emerge that call our outlook into question or raise downside risks, we would 
respond appropriately. Monetary policy is not on a preset course. 
With this cut, I feel that policy would be in a good position. If things do take a turn for 
the worse, it will not be because we are behind the curve. If things continue about as we expect, 

the adjustments we’ve made through the year will be part of the reason for that favorable 
performance. As I mentioned, I also see the cuts as appropriate to support our 2 percent inflation 
goal. It seems to me unlikely that we will find a reason to regret these adjustments. 
If our policy decision tomorrow goes as seems likely, I plan to say in the press 
conference that the stance of monetary policy is in a good place that is designed to help keep the 
U.S. economy strong in the face of global developments and to provide some insurance against 
ongoing risks; that our stance is likely to remain appropriate as long as incoming information 
about the economy remains broadly consistent with our outlook of moderate economic growth, a 
strong labor market, and inflation near our symmetric 2 percent objective; and that if 
developments emerge that call our outlook into question or raise risks to the outlook, we will 
respond accordingly—again, policy is not on a preset course. 
So, thank you, and I’ll look forward to hearing folks’ views on those issues tomorrow. 
Now I would really like to go ahead with Thomas and finish this tonight. These are precious 
minutes for me tomorrow, so I’d rather not have it spill over. Take it over, Thomas. 
MR. LAUBACH.
7 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I salute Stacey’s courage 
regarding the color choice in her charts. An earlier draft of my briefing contained a 
reference to the plummeting probability of an 11th District World Series victory. 
Alas, that has turned around. [Laughter] 
In addition to determining whether to change the stance of monetary policy at this 
meeting, a key question for the Committee is how to communicate with the public 
regarding the likely path of monetary policy in the near term. In particular, the 
alternatives presented in the Tealbook differ in how they convey the likelihood of 
future rate cuts. In considering this issue, it may be useful to take a step back to 
review the magnitude of cumulative policy accommodation that will be in train after 
this meeting and its likely effects on the real economy and inflation. 
The upper-left panel presents one measure of the magnitude of policy 
accommodation that the Committee has delivered compared with your own 
projections as of roughly one year ago. The black line plots the midpoint of the target 
range for the federal funds rate over the past two years. The blue crosses show the 
 
7 The materials used by Mr. Laubach are appended to this transcript (appendix 7). 

SEP median values for the federal funds rate as of last September, and the orange 
circles show the SEP medians of just last month. The magnitude of the reduction in 
the median path is substantial: on the order of 150 basis points by the end of 2020. 
The panel to the right shows that financial market quotes have reflected a similar 
reduction in expectations regarding the path of monetary policy. The black line again 
plots the actual funds rate path, and the dotted blue line depicts a straight read of 
market expectations measured using OIS quotes dating to last September, while the 
solid blue line shows current expectations from OIS quotes. As usual, because the 
market-based measures likely embed negative term premiums, the figure also 
presents a model-based adjustment that purges the term premium components from 
OIS quotes, shown in red. Irrespective of whether they are adjusted for term 
premiums, market-based expectations have shifted down by roughly the same 
magnitude as the SEP medians. 
The critical question is to what degree the shift in the actual and expected path for 
the federal funds rate over the past year appears to be fostering your goals with 
respect to employment and inflation despite weaker global growth prospects and 
notable disinflationary forces. As noted by many of you in the previous go-round, 
there are some indications that the easing has already generated a response of real 
activity, particularly in components of aggregate demand thought to be relatively 
sensitive to movements in interest rates. For example, the middle-left panel shows 
single-family housing starts and permits. As noted in the Tealbook, the rise of these 
indicators in recent months suggests that the decline in mortgage rates over the past 
year is finally showing up in stronger residential construction activity. Household 
spending more broadly, although slowing, still appears to be rising at a healthy clip, 
buoyed by continued solid job gains and income growth. 
That said, business fixed investment continues to decelerate, and weak growth 
abroad, as well as trade developments, continues to be a drag on manufacturing 
activity. Moreover, the middle-right panel illustrates that private forecasters continue 
to see the risk of recession as sizable. The bars show results given in the Survey of 
Professional Forecasters regarding the probability of negative real GDP growth 
during each of the subsequent four quarters. The survey-based probabilities have 
edged up at each horizon on net. 
I’ll now turn to the outlook for the other leg of the dual mandate. The lower-left 
panel highlights that market-based measures of longer-term inflation compensation, 
the black line, have fallen noticeably over the past year. These raw figures on 
inflation compensation are likely depressed by negative risk premiums. The red and 
green lines show the estimates of expected inflation from two different variations of a 
term structure model that the staff uses to purge inflation compensation of risk 
premiums. Alas, both of these measures also suggest that long-term inflation 
expectations have eroded this year and account for the bulk of the decline in inflation 
compensation. Of note, these expectations are of CPI inflation 5 to 10 years into the 
future; the corresponding expectations regarding PCE inflation are presumably at 
least ¼ percentage point lower. Somewhat in contrast, most survey-based measures 

of long-run inflation expectations, such as those from the Survey of Professional 
Forecasters—depicted by the blue line—have generally declined by a smaller 
amount. 
With respect to your decision for tomorrow, the three alternative policy 
statements draw divergent conclusions from the evidence I just discussed and other 
information for the appropriate action today and the likely subsequent course of 
monetary policy. 
As outlined in the lower-right panel, alternative B suggests that, after another 
reduction in the target range for the federal funds rate, the economy is likely to 
continue operating at a high level of resource utilization, which in turn will, over 
time, lift inflation to 2 percent. The removal of the “act as appropriate” language will 
likely be understood by the public as conveying a diminished likelihood of additional 
near-term reductions in the target range. That said, alternative B continues to note 
remaining uncertainties about the economic outlook, and it reaffirms the Committee’s 
commitment to monitoring the implications of incoming information for the 
attainment of your objectives. 
Alternative C also removes the “act as appropriate” language but does not reduce 
the target range at this meeting. By dropping the references to global developments 
and muted inflation pressures, alternative C conveys reduced concern about downside 
risks to the outlook and greater confidence that maintaining the current stance of 
monetary policy is sufficient to achieve 2 percent inflation on a sustained basis. 
In contrast, alternative A does not express as much confidence in the eventual 
return of inflation to 2 percent as the other alternatives, instead emphasizing that 
inflation has run persistently below 2 percent. It conveys the view that more 
accommodation beyond the rate reduction at this meeting may be required to achieve 
inflation outcomes symmetric around the 2 percent objective. Consequently, 
alternative A maintains the “act as appropriate” language, thereby signaling a greater 
openness to additional reductions in the target range for the federal funds rate. 
Thank you, Chair Powell. That completes my prepared remarks. The September 
statement and the draft alternatives and implementation notes are shown on pages 2 to 
9 of the handout. I will be happy to take any questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Questions for Thomas? [No response] The strategy is 
working. [Laughter] If there are no questions, then we will adjourn to the elegant West Court 
Café, and we’ll reconvene tomorrow morning at 9:00 a.m. Thank you very much. 
[Meeting recessed] 

October 30 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. Why don’t we start with an update from 
Stacey on the overnight economic news. 
MS. TEVLIN.8 Sure. You should have a handout that says “Material for Gross 
Domestic Product Update.” Real GDP growth came in just a little bit stronger than we’d 
expected. It was 0.2 percentage point higher than we had in the Tealbook, which is what’s 
indicated here—1.9 percent instead of 1.7 percent. And you may recall that, as of yesterday, we 
thought it was 1.6 percent—so, not a big surprise from that, either. 
Personal consumption expenditure growth came in a little bit stronger than we expected. 
We had a little bit weaker BFI compared with the Tealbook, although we already knew about 
that yesterday. So, overall, PDFP came in pretty close to what we expected—maybe a little bit 
stronger—and we got a little bit more government spending, equally spread between federal and 
state and local. And then, it’s not on here, but net exports were also just a little bit stronger as 
well—so, really a pretty close hit, and we’re very relieved about that. 
Then, just at the bottom, you can see that core PCE price inflation came in at 2.2 percent 
in the third quarter. That’s a quarterly growth rate at an annual rate. We won’t have the 
12-month change until tomorrow, but the fact that that came in exactly as expected gives us 
some comfort. That’s all I have. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Thanks. Questions for Stacey? [No response] Okay. Great. 
Seeing none, why don’t we turn to the policy go-round, and we’ll start with Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. I support alternative B as written and the 
policy decision to lower the funds rate target range by 25 basis points. I note that in this 
 
8 The materials used by Ms. Tevlin are appended to this transcript (appendix 8). 

statement, we continue to acknowledge that “measures of inflation compensation remain low.” 
While true, they remain low at levels last seen in 2016 and are down 50 basis points in the past 
12 months. 
As mentioned yesterday, the staff model attributes about half of this decline to a fall in 
expected inflation. The statement continues to say that “survey-based measures . . . are little 
changed.” While technically correct, the language does obscure the fact that prominent survey 
measures such as the Michigan survey are at all-time low levels. As the staff work on the 
inflation expectations index confirms, the common factor in 21 different indicators of inflation 
expectations is at an all-time low level, which indicates to me that if these measures were 
consistent with expected inflation of 2 percent a dozen years ago, they are less likely to be 
consistent with that now. 
As we learned just now, the U.S. consumer remains the engine of growth for the U.S. 
economy, but the slowdown in global growth and trade, as well as pervasive global 
disinflationary pressures, has affected the trajectory for the U.S. economy. And I, for one, am 
pleased that this Committee has eased policy by 50 basis points since June and do support 
another 25 basis point adjustment today. Although there are many factors that influence the 
slope of the U.S. yield curve—and I believe that global factors have been an important 
contributor to this—I do take some signal from an inverted curve, and I, for one, sleep better at 
night when the curve is not inverted, as I believe it would still be had we not adjusted policy in 
July and September. 
In regard to the way forward for monetary policy, my baseline expectation is that this 
cumulative 75 basis point adjustment in the policy rate should be sufficient to provide the more 
accommodative policy stance needed to offset the headwinds we all recognize and will maximize 

our chances to maintain employment and inflation at levels at or close to our dual-mandate 
objectives. For this reason, I do support the statement language that replaces “act as appropriate” 
with “continue to monitor . . . as it assess the appropriate path . . . for the federal funds rate.” 
And in my own public communication, I plan to make this point by saying that the economy is in 
a good place and I believe monetary policy is in a good place. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. I see three 
reasons for providing more accommodation at this meeting and calibrating monetary policy to a 
somewhat accommodative stance. And I’ll say that this is not a “delta–delta” decision: It’s not 
“delta” data since the September meeting and “delta” policy. It’s more about the level. So here 
are my three reasons. The first one is inflation. For many years now, we have fallen below our 
2 percent inflation goal. These failures come with costs, as we’ve discussed. Long-term 
inflation expectations can slip lower, risking a situation like Japan or—even more relevant and 
timely, I think—Europe. Moreover, without progress on inflation, getting it sustainably to 
2 percent, we risk entering the next downturn with lower nominal rates, closer to the effective 
lower bound, and with less conventional policy space. As a result of these risks regarding 
inflation, I view further accommodation as essential to get inflation back to target. 
Now, my second reason is, it seems likely that full employment remains more of a 
moving target than in previous expansions. Over the past several years, we have nearly 
continuously revised down our estimates of u* as unemployment has fallen more than we 
expected. And the preponderance of anecdotal reports, including incoming information from 
Fed Listens events, suggest that the labor market could have even more room to run. Providing 

further accommodation ensures that the labor market can remain strong as we learn the true 
value or the true meaning of full employment. 
Third, with slower global growth and falling interest rates abroad, the pressures on r* 
remain to the downside. In the United States, recent evidence derived from TIPS suggests that 
the neutral rate might have slipped below 0.5 percent of late, lower than the most recent SEP 
median. As we discussed in July, our proximity to the effective lower bound argues for a risk-
management approach when it comes to calibrating policy against the uncertain value of the 
neutral rate. The research tells us that in this environment, the stance of policy should adjust to 
the lower end of the range of our r* estimates. So this also suggests additional policy 
accommodation. 
Given these three reasons, I support a 25 basis point cut at this meeting. This reduction 
should help calibrate policy to a level that supports economic growth sufficiently to achieve our 
dual-mandate goals, given the current and projected economic conditions. And here, I am 
mindful, of course, of the research that says it’s important to move earlier rather than later, when 
you face these conditions. 
Looking ahead, I’m hopeful that, as Governor Clarida mentioned, the cumulative amount 
of policy accommodation we’ve put in place so far this year will be sufficient. So it makes sense 
to me to pause after today’s move and carefully monitor economic developments. The language 
in alternative B appropriately conveys this message. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative C at this meeting. The 
economic outcomes for inflation, unemployment, and real GDP have been quite close to what I 

expected six months ago. Some key risks in September have declined—notably, risks regarding 
tariffs and Brexit—and it is not far-fetched to see some upside to consumption prospects. 
Unfortunately, the calibration of risk is somewhat of a judgment call, and so is the 
calibration of some potential headwinds. As a result, it is difficult to quantify just how much 
monetary stimulus is called for and, in particular, whether additional stimulus is needed at this 
meeting. If we choose to ease further today, which it looks like we will, when risks to the 
outlook seem to have moderated and the underlying pace of activity is still healthy, explaining to 
the public the criteria for pausing or pursuing further accommodation in the future could become 
increasingly difficult. 
Additional easing beyond this meeting would seem more consistent with an expected 
major slowdown and less appropriate as an approach to risk management. In that regard, I 
appreciate the change made to the statement that makes clearer—or, at least, I hope it’s 
interpreted that way—that we expect to pause after this meeting. I think it is important to 
reinforce the point in our communications that additional moves would be appropriate only if we 
see a meaningful, broad-based decline in the economic data, an outcome that we do not currently 
expect, and I don’t think that’s conveyed in the statement as it stands right now. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I once again support alternative C as written. 
Currently, there’s even less reason to lower rates than there was in September. Most economic 
forecasts show an economy growing at or near the trend rate, and downside risks, though still 
present, have diminished. Today’s GDP report reinforces this view. I continue to have concerns 

about the lower level of market-based inflation expectations and the undershooting of our 
inflation target, but we do seem to be making slow headway toward our 2 percent goal. 
I would prefer that we wait to see the effects of the previous rate cuts before moving 
further. That preference is reflected in the opinions of my board and by bankers and other 
contacts in the District, the vast majority of whom would like to see how things play out before 
another move is made. 
Our primary reason for lowering rates is to take out insurance against potential downside 
risks. But, in my view, we continue to be vague about what conditions would imply an 
appropriate level of the funds rate. With both the federal funds rate and risks now lower than in 
September, setting policy on what appears to be a glide path to zero seems inappropriate. 
And I do echo President Rosengren. I do applaud the language in alternative B in that it 
will at least signal a pause. So I think we should keep our powder dry, and I’m not in favor of 
the cut, but I am in favor of the change in the language in alternative B. 
My policy position continues to favor acting aggressively if we do see meaningful 
weakening in the labor market or on the part of the consumer. But those conditions have not 
arisen, so right now, I favor leaving things where they are—leaving the rate where it is. Thanks, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. As you may recall, at our videoconference 
meeting earlier this month, when we discussed plans for addressing money market volatility, I 
had that loving feeling of being back in the majority. Unfortunately, now it’s gone, gone, gone 
[laughter], because, based on my assessment of incoming information, my outlook, and the risks 
to the outlook, I support no change in the federal funds rate at this meeting. 

There’s been little change in the outlook since our previous meeting, and the economy 
continues to perform fairly well along a number of dimensions. Business spending, 
manufacturing activity, and exports have been weak, while consumer spending has held up well. 
Despite some tempering, labor market conditions remain strong, suggesting that solid income 
growth will continue to support consumer spending. Although real GDP growth in the second 
half of the year will be slower than in the first half, for the year as a whole, growth will likely be 
around its trend rate, as anticipated. Inflation remains below our goal but is gradually moving 
up, also as anticipated. Risks to the outlook are tilted to the downside—which means we should 
be carefully monitoring for signs that the weakness in business sentiment and spending is spilling 
over into labor markets and consumer spending, with the potential for a sharper-than-expected 
deterioration in real GDP growth. 
Now, the revision of our policy expectations, the flattening of our policy rate path at the 
start of the year, was welcome and appropriate. But I would say that only signs of a broader 
weakening in the economic outlook would make me want to think it was appropriate to act and, 
in that case, act decisively. Until we see that, my preference is to leave the funds rate where it is 
and not cut again merely on elevated risk. Firms already have ample access to credit, and 
corporate debt levels are already quite high. In my view, the benefits of a rate cut in this 
environment may not exceed the costs of encouraging potentially excess risk-taking that could 
make any future downturn worse. 
The widely held expectation of the market is that we’re cutting again at this meeting, and 
our intermeeting communications have not deterred that view. So we’re likely precluded from 
leaving the funds rate unchanged today. 

I do fully support signaling that, barring a material change in the outlook, this is the last 
rate cut for a while. We’ve had a cumulative 75 basis point reduction in the funds rate, similar to 
what the Committee did in 1995. It does take some time for those cuts to work themselves 
through the economy, so we’re pausing to allow that to occur, and we’ll continue to monitor 
economic and financial conditions. 
Now, market participants currently expect a lower funds rate path than what the 
Committee expects will be appropriate. Today’s messaging in the statement and the Chair’s 
press conference may better align those expectations, but it will be important to continue to 
monitor market expectations over the intermeeting period. 
Assuming no change in the outlook, we may need to reinforce today’s message in our 
upcoming speeches that another reduction in the funds rate is unlikely in the near term, 
depending on how the economy evolves, to help bring market expectations into better alignment. 
Otherwise, at our December meeting, we may be in the uncomfortable position of causing some 
potential disruption when we disappoint the markets. With elevated end-of-year pressures in 
financial markets already a risk, we should take care not to add to volatility and do all we can to 
communicate clearly our intentions. 
To that end, I continue to think we should allow the statement to do more of the work and 
put less of the burden on the Chair at his press conference. Some of the language in the press 
conference remarks might have been part of our statement. If we began to better explain things 
in the statement, we would have more freedom to change wording from one meeting to another 
rather than feeling handcuffed to the code words we’re using. 
It’s as if there’s an Avogadro’s constant for the statement that relates the number of 
words in the statement to the weight put on each word by market participants and Fed watchers. 

The fewer the words in the statement, the higher is the weight put on any one word, so the harder 
it is for us to change a word. If we used more words to explain things, each word would carry 
less weight. People wouldn’t expect us to constantly repeat things from one meeting to the next, 
because our words would be less boilerplate, and this would free us to change statement 
language productively from meeting to meeting without fear of sending the wrong message. 
Yes, I do know this is an aspirational goal, but can’t a girl dream? [Laughter] Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the policy action as described in 
alternative C. As has been the case for the past few meetings, the economy has met the goals, in 
my view, that we have defined as meeting our dual-mandate objectives. Consumers have 
remained solid, and there have been few signs of material weaknesses or excesses in risk-taking 
that would merit a significant change in our policy stance. 
My projection expected a slowing as the economy settled into its long-run trajectory, 
something just under 2 percent. I have no indications that the economy will deteriorate 
significantly below a soft landing to this long-run rate. I would add that this is a view that is 
strongly held by my Sixth District directors and my business contacts across a wide spectrum. 
And, like President Harker, the business contacts with whom I spoke would rather wait and see 
what happens. 
As you might expect, I think our policy action today introduces risk. I’ve articulated this 
position for a while, though, so I won’t dwell on the arguments in depth here. Rather, let me 
speak to three bigger issues quickly. First, consistent with the views expressed by many 

members of the Committee, I think the ceding of policy space in an environment in which the 
economy is growing above its potential rate is not ideal. 
Second, it’s my sense that many have adopted a cynical view that the policy actions we 
have taken are motivated more by political expediency than rigorous analysis. And even if this 
is not true inside this building, I have real concern that it’s carrying the day outside the building, 
and that we are gradually surrendering our posture of political independence. 
Finally, in the grand scheme of things, communications will be the critical element of 
what happens today, and the press conference will be quite important. There are two dimensions 
I’d like to speak to. First, as I’ve said many times in previous meetings, it’s important that we 
clearly and repeatedly express our view that the economy is performing at, or even above, its 
long-run potential, as articulated by this body. We need to be clear on this to “push back” 
against the possibility that negativity seeps into broader sentiment. 
And, second, regarding the shift to a pause phase, I’d recommend that we just say that 
this is the beginning of a new pause phase and stop there. Appealing to possible “ifs,” under 
which the pause would not hold, just introduces the possibility of questioning our resolve. In my 
view, this would best position us to be prepared for whatever economic and policy perturbations 
we must grapple with in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Like my colleagues here near the map, I believe the better message is 
alternative C. I could imagine buying a bit more insurance at some point, but I don’t believe that 
today is the right time to do it. 
As I said yesterday, external conditions are making additional stimulus today pretty 
inefficient. I would compare it to trying to light damp kindling. For those of you who weren’t 

Boy Scouts, you create a lot of smoke, nothing ever catches fire, and you use up all of your 
matches. [Laughter] At a time when the lower bound is closer than we’d like, I would save our 
moves for times when we think they will make a bigger difference. 
The real rate with respect to core inflation is currently zero. That feels to me like a 
simple message of accommodation, and I have a hard time getting my mind around negative real 
rates without a more burning need. 
I also think waiting would send the right message to the markets and the public. Like 
many of us, I’ve been concerned about pressures that inevitably take us to zero. I also worry 
about sending a message that the economy is worse than it actually is. The data are still sound. 
Growth is roughly at trend. Even with the new language—which I, too, appreciate—moving 
now will naturally mean higher expectations for another move and muddy our message that a 
trend economy is fine and to be expected. And although the downside risks that we’ve insured 
against with the past two cuts are still present, they have, if anything, diminished some since our 
September meeting. 
So I see a strong case for staying put today and saving a third cut if the data deteriorate. 
As an aside, understanding that this nice run of alternative C proponents is likely to end soon 
[laughter], I would counsel against, in this press conference, weighting uncertainty too heavily as 
you speak. We’ve put a lot of stimulus behind risk and uncertainty already, and I guess I’d 
prefer to put more weight on data as we go forward. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the 25 basis point rate cut in 
alternative B, setting the target funds rate range at 1½ to 1¾ percent. I have strongly supported 
our rate cuts this year for two reasons: risk management against the downside threats to growth 

and to get inflation moving up with enough momentum to generate a modest overshooting of our 
inflation target within the forecast window. 
The same basic rationale leads me to support today’s decision. I admit, however, that it 
is a close call. Determining the appropriate risk-management buffer clearly involves more art 
than science. Given the apparent resiliency in the economy, our current policy stance may 
provide enough protection against the risk that more intense headwinds could develop. But 
another 25 basis point rate cut would boost our confidence that this is the case. It also would 
provide some more useful assurance to households and businesses that we remain highly vigilant 
to the potential downside risks. 
Meanwhile, we really haven’t seen enough improvement on the inflation front, and, in 
light of the asymmetric losses around the inflation forecast following our long period of 
undershooting, I see nothing wrong and many things right with inflation picking up faster than 
expected and achieving our objective sooner rather than later. Inflation and our inflation 
projections are simply too low. Page 34 of Tealbook A has “The Long-Term Outlook,” and 
inflation, total and core, is forecast through 2025 to be 1.9 percent. Now, I agree that this is only 
one-tenth below our 2 percent objective, and I could agree with Governor Quarles when he said a 
few times ago, “Well, you know, 1.7 percent for a long period is stable. Does that keep me up? 
I wouldn’t be kept up over 2.3 percent for a long period.” That makes sense. But why is it 
always below 2 percent? I think we can do better. 
Putting these together, I think we should err on the side of providing a bit more 
accommodation, and we should go ahead and move today. 
As I look ahead, my modal expectation is that we will be able to leave rates on hold for 
some time as we assess developments. And, according to my baseline forecast, these 

developments should be favorable, with real GDP growth near its trend rate and a gradual pickup 
in inflation and inflation expectations. 
Our message should be that monetary policy is now judiciously positioned. We’ve 
installed an adequate risk-management buffer to absorb moderate shocks, and our planned policy 
path to support a return to target inflation. We are being vigilant and are prepared to act 
aggressively if shocks accumulate into something more serious. But without going overboard, 
I’d also emphasize the resiliency we’ve seen in the economy, and that our baseline expectation is 
that with appropriate policy, this resilience will show through in continued growth and rising 
inflation. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B for today, as written. I 
think we continue to face downside risks in a slowing economy. Those downside risks I 
delineated yesterday, but they are well known around the table: the ongoing global trade war, 
which I see no resolution to in the near term; a slowing global economy; a weak manufacturing 
sector; and weak business investment in the United States. 
The slowing economy has now come to 1.9 percent for the third-quarter GDP growth 
number, which we just got. That’s very close to what most people around the table here have as 
trend. I actually would put the trend somewhat higher—2 to 2¼ percent. I do think productivity 
has been improving and will continue to improve. So you could argue that we’re right at the 
cusp of possibly falling below trend growth. We’ll see what happens. 
I still have the idea that we’re at the low point here, and that real GDP growth in the first 
half of 2020 will be stronger—2¼ percent, or maybe better than that. That would be great. That 

would be a great outcome. And, if that happens, then we could think about taking some of our 
insurance cuts back in 2020 or 2021. 
We also have low inflation and inflation expectations. I’m going to echo some of 
President Evans’s comments here and Governor Clarida’s comments. A TIPS-based five-year 
inflation expectation adjusted to PCE inflation—my reading is, it’s only 1¼ percent over the next 
five years. It makes me very nervous about our ability to stay off the effective lower bound, 
which is, I think, the critical thing for our era—to keep the United States off the effective lower 
bound. 
It’s true that actual inflation in the 1.7 to 1.8 percent range seems like it’s close to our 
2 percent target. I’m going to give you an argument that it’s not. It’s not close enough for 
government work. The cumulative miss since 2012 is substantial. In my view, we established a 
2 percent inflation target circa 1995, and we stayed on the price-level path associated with that 
2 percent inflation target from 1995 all of the way through 2012, which is when we named our 
2 percent inflation target. Then we immediately moved off that price-level path and fell below. 
You know, we’re more than 5 percent off that price-level path today. And in a lot of models and 
our own models that we use here, price-level targeting is close to optimal, so I think that does 
represent some suboptimal policy since 2012. If you wanted to get back on the price-level path, 
you could run a 2½ percent inflation policy for the next 10 years, and that would just get you 
back to that 1995–2012 path. 
So I do think it’s been substantial cumulatively. I think that’s because some inside and 
outside the Committee are viewing the 2 percent inflation objective as a ceiling, not as a target 
that we actually want to hit. Accordingly, markets are sniffing this out, and they’re assuming 

that we’re going to miss to the low side for quite a while to come. Even our own staff has moved 
the longer-run inflation expectation down to 1.8 percent. 
So, again, if you’re trying to stay off the effective lower bound, none of this sounds very 
good. What I’d really like to see in the current situation, in which the expansion has been going 
on for a long time—we have very strong labor markets—I’d like inflation to be above 2 percent, 
even as high as 2½ percent, during this period. So if you think of it that way, we’re missing a 
long ways below where we should be. If we’re at 2½ percent, then, when some recession or big 
shock comes in the future, we’ll average out to 2 percent, we’ll be able to hit our 2 percent target, 
and that will keep inflation expectations centered where we’d like them to be. 
We’re not doing that now. You know, that’s my assessment of the current situation. I do 
think that the Committee has done a lot in 2019 to react to this situation. I was saying yesterday, 
if you look at the two-year Treasury yields—down, maybe, on the order of 130 basis points since 
this time last year—that’s a big change in this kind of game. And I think it will help us re-center 
inflation and inflation expectations back toward target. It will also help provide insurance 
against the downside risks on the real side of the economy that we face. 
After a move today, the 10-year federal funds rate spread will correct and turn positive 
again. I think that’s important. I do take signals, like Governor Clarida does, from the yield 
curve. The 10-year/2-year spread never sustainably inverted, so it’s possible that whatever bear 
signal would be coming from the yield curve has been averted here by astute action by this 
Committee. I hope that’s the case, and I hope the 10-year Treasury yield will trade higher—and 
we’ll get a more healthy, upward-sloping yield curve. 
I would have preferred to move somewhat more quickly over the past several meetings, 
but I do think we’re more appropriately calibrated today than we were. So I think we can wait 

and see—pause, as some of you have been saying—to see how our additional accommodation is 
affecting the economy through long and variable lags associated with monetary policy. And I do 
think some of those effects are coming through in housing data and elsewhere—interest-sensitive 
sectors—in the economy. So I think you’re very much seeing classic effects of our policy easing 
during 2019. 
I hope we’ll see more of that and that the economy will pick up a little bit, and we’ll be in 
a good position through the end of the year and into the first half of 2020. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as written. Leading 
up to this meeting, all things being equal, I probably would have preferred not to move today—to 
have turned over a few more cards and waited—with an understanding that we’d be ready to act 
in the future. Having said that, in light of downside risks, I can live with moving today, and I’m 
supportive of alternative B. As others have said, I think, for me, as I’ve said before, the yield 
curve is a bit of a reality check, and, on the margin, I think this move today will be the last step, 
at least for the time being, in getting the yield curve, for me, in a better position. 
Having adjusted policy, though, in this meeting, I believe the policy setting is now 
appropriate, given my economic outlook. I believe the three moves we have made so far this 
year, as well as the flattening of expectations of the future federal funds rate path, have been 
appropriate and should be sufficient to address the economic weakness that I’ve been concerned 
about. 
From here, I intend to be vigilant. But unless something significant changes in the 
outlook, I would not be supportive of further reductions in the policy rate, at least for the 

foreseeable future. At this point, I believe the Committee should be patient, allow time to 
unfold, and see how the economy develops over the next several months. 
I am mindful of the limits of monetary policy, the risks of monetary policy trying to do 
too much, and, lastly, that it is not a substitute for broader economic policies that address growth 
in the workforce, productivity, education, skills training, and immigration. Other policies away 
from monetary policy are critical, and I think, at a certain point, people like me and us calling 
that out and expressing the limits of monetary policy is a healthy thing. Thank you, 
Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also support alternative B as currently written. 
The U.S. economy is in a good place, and my outlook is little changed from the September 
meeting. The labor market has remained strong, and the various forward-looking indicators do 
not show signs of a marked deterioration in either labor demand or hiring activity. Inflation has 
approached, but not fully reached, our 2 percent target, and inflationary pressures appear muted, 
raising the question of the need to provide additional policy accommodation. 
Risk factors have also lessened somewhat in recent weeks. Movement toward an orderly 
Brexit appears to be progressing, and trade uncertainties have eased somewhat. However, 
economic developments since our September meeting have been mixed, and the staff revised 
foreign growth downward again. Manufacturing output, both here and abroad, has shown further 
signs of weakening, and there are some indications that business investment in the United States 
may be turning down more sharply than we’d been expecting. 
So, given all of the information we currently have in hand, in my view, the balance of 
risks and available data support making another modest downward adjustment to our policy 

stance. My expectation is that this, combined with the rate cuts from the past two meetings, 
should be sufficient to bolster confidence and support the continued economic expansion. 
I support alternative B, because I prefer that we adjust the language of the statement to 
reflect a more balanced view of the risks to the outlook and to convey our current expectation 
that no further moves will be needed unless the outlook deteriorates. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Incoming data continue to support an 
outlook for growth at or above potential, with record-low unemployment at 3½ percent and low 
and stable core inflation currently at 2.2 percent. 
In the face of downside risks to the outlook, the Committee has provided significant 
accommodation in the form of a lower projected path since last year and reductions in the federal 
funds rate at our past two meetings. Taking into account the fact that monetary policy operates 
with a lag, I think it seems prudent to wait for more evidence that the July and September rate 
cuts have been insufficient before providing further accommodation. 
Ignoring these lags may put at risk our dual mandate objectives and perhaps 
unintentionally signal an ongoing easing cycle. For example, I could anticipate that we’ll 
continue to see sluggish manufacturing activity and capital spending in the near term as firms 
wrestle with how to respond to uncertainty about trade policy and global demand. If we’re 
impatient as we wait for interest rate cuts to stimulate the economy, these persistent conditions 
could lead us to respond with additional rate cuts that could ultimately prove counterproductive 
by encouraging elevated vulnerabilities in the financial system and misallocation of resources. 
Consistent with alternative C, I would prefer to maintain the current federal funds rate target 

while waiting for clearer signs that weakness in business spending and exports is spilling over to 
the service sector and consumer spending. 
Finally, communication about the stance of policy seems increasingly important and 
challenging. I support a message that, given the current outlook, we are not on a one-way path 
back down to the effective lower bound. However, I worry that our actions at each meeting 
since July will be viewed as a cyclical policy turning point, because of communications that have 
offered a variety of rationales for rate cuts—including insurance, risk management, mid-cycle 
adjustments, meeting-by-meeting decisionmaking, and data dependence. 
While the uncertainty associated with weak global growth and other downside risks 
suggest it may be too soon to signal that policy is firmly on hold, retaining policy flexibility 
could be viewed as a further easing bias. This afternoon’s press conference will provide the 
opportunity to thread that challenging communication needle. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. And despite 
my native sympathies for the “people of the map,” I can make that statement without holding a 
newspaper with today’s date in front of my chest, because there are some signs of weakness in 
the domestic data—particularly regarding investment, which I have long said is my lodestar, and 
manufacturing, which is what it is—and cutting rates at this meeting is appropriate to support 
continued growth. 
In addition, despite some possible progress on trade, although I share President Bullard’s 
skepticism, and the less likelihood of a hard Brexit, the risks to the outlook are downward. And, 
should we be hit by a negative shock later in the year, we will be in a better place by having cut 
rates today. 

That said, although I’m comfortable with today’s rate cut, I don’t see a compelling need 
for further cuts unless the data turn decidedly worse or risks to the outlook increase meaningfully 
further, which, along with President Rosengren and a number of other speakers, I don’t expect. I 
think the language in the statement conveys this well. 
With the cuts that we put in place this year, I view the stance of policy as being very 
accommodative. And as the growth outlook stabilizes and inflation inches up close to target, I 
expect that we’ll need to begin gradually removing this accommodation at a practicable date. 
Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. My compliments to Stacey and her team on their 
forecast, which came in eerily close to today’s GDP “print” on almost every component. 
The most notable change in my view since the September meeting is that two important 
risks have diminished more than I anticipated. First, the trade truce between the U.S. and China 
has bolstered sentiment and appears to reduce the risk that significant additional tariffs could hit 
consumer goods. Second, the tail risk of a no-deal Brexit has declined significantly, diminishing 
a risk that’s been hanging over a good part of the world economy for the past year. Reflecting 
these positive developments, we’ve seen a steepening of the yield curve, and almost every 
recession indicator that we track for the U.S. economy has declined during the intermeeting 
period, with some probabilities coming down as much as 10 percentage points. 
Beyond this, my modal outlook remains broadly similar to that in September. This 
morning’s data suggest that economic activity continued to expand at a slightly above-trend pace 
in Q3, though more slowly than in the first half of the year. Consumer spending has remained 

healthy, the labor market has continued to tighten, and, so far, there’s little sign that the softness 
in trade, manufacturing, and business investment is infecting consumer spending or services. 
The bulk of the evidence points to an economy that’s stabilizing at a near-trend pace, but 
there are a couple of data points that might suggest a more significant slowing. Against the 
backdrop of muted inflation, I can support today’s cut based on principles of risk management. I 
do think it’s worth noting that the 75 basis points in cuts that we will have undertaken as of today 
are a much larger move in today’s environment as compared with the analogies that are often 
drawn with the mid-1990s. 
Based on the data today and my outlook, I don’t currently see the need for additional 
cuts. In my view, the months ahead provide a good moment to step back and assess whether the 
policy easing that we’ve already provided might be sufficient to address risks to the outlook. As 
this morning’s “print” confirms, already we’re seeing some encouraging signs in the housing 
sector in response to the change in longer-term yields associated with our earlier adjustments in 
our policy trajectory. And, as President George noted, the full effects of the easing that’s taken 
place are likely to take some time to show through to the data. Of course, if the data were to 
suggest a more significant slowing in coming months, I would certainly be prepared to act. 
I would like to see our policy decisions less constrained by market expectations and more 
responsive to the data. Today’s statement should help in restoring optionality and refocusing 
expectations on data. Communications will need to be extremely deliberate in order to avoid 
ending up in situations in which we feel constrained to validate market expectations in advance 
of having all of the data we need to make our decisions. 
I am also concerned—in light of our “low-for-long” expected path of interest rates, with 
growth running close to its potential rate—about the risk of exacerbating imbalances in financial 

and credit markets. Experience suggests that financial market risk appetite and private-sector 
leverage are strongly procyclical. And we do see clear signs of that in the corporate debt market 
and the associated low credit spreads. Although these financial imbalances could be addressed 
by augmenting buffers countercyclically, in fact, we’ve seen payouts exceeding earnings for the 
largest banks and buffers falling. In that environment, monetary policy may have to do more of 
the work. 
So, in sum, if the outlook and balance of risks stay relatively stable, I’d want to stay put 
and assess how the economy is responding for a couple of meetings. I don’t see a case for 
further cuts on the basis of today’s outlook—though I would be prepared to take action 
decisively, should the data surprise to the downside. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B. I believe the data 
clearly support a more accommodative monetary policy stance. Consider the two sides of our 
dual mandate. On price stability, inflation is too low. It’s been too low for eight years. Inflation 
expectations are too low, inflation expectations are falling, and the risk-neutral probabilities 
suggest that a risk of lower inflation is much higher than of higher inflation. 
On the employment side, the unemployment rate is low, but there are clear signs the U.S. 
job market is losing steam. There appears to still be slack in the labor market, and wage growth 
is slowing, not accelerating. 
When I think about optimal monetary policy, the two sides of our dual mandate should be 
in tension. There should be tradeoffs. There’s no tradeoff. That just tells me policy has been 
too tight, and we’re in the “free lunch” zone between these two sides of our dual mandate. I’m 
always reminded—I joke to my staff about an economist who won’t pick up a $20 bill because it 

can’t possibly exist. There have been $20 bills lying all over the U.S. economy for the past five 
years, and it’s for us to pick them up—not to put them in our pockets, but to put them in the 
pockets of the American people. 
And one of the things that I think we’ve learned over the past few years is, the benefits to 
the country of a tightening labor market are profound. Mary talked about it yesterday. Others 
have talked about it—all of these groups that are finally benefiting from a tightening labor 
market. That’s why I think we need to err on the side of keeping the expansion going and 
bringing as many people back in as possible. Finally, low-wage workers are getting wage 
increases. I mean, the benefits are all there. So that’s why I support a more accommodative 
policy stance. 
I talked about this yesterday. I’ll just repeat it briefly. I think we should be using 
forward guidance now to try to avoid getting back to the lower bound. All of the analysis that 
the staff has provided shows that if we get back to the ELB, our tools are limited. We’re much 
better off to take action now to avoid the ELB than try to deal with it once we get there. 
And I would just say, I enjoyed Tom’s comments about the Boy Scouts and the matches, 
but I actually don’t think—I mean, people use different metaphors. They say “keeping our 
powder dry,” “saving our ammunition,” and “saving our matches.” I actually don’t think those 
are the right analogies. I think that it’s not, you fire your bullets now, and you don’t have 
ammunition later. I think a better analogy is, you’re driving down the highway, and you think a 
hill might be coming. Do you accelerate now, or do you want to keep your powder dry and not 
accelerate? I think you’re better off accelerating and getting up to speed, and then, if the hill 
emerges, you can take the hill. It’s not that if you accelerate now, then you don’t have any pedal 
left to push when the hill actually emerges. 

So, again, I enjoyed the analogy, and many people use similar ones. I actually don’t 
think those are the right analogies. I don’t think if we cut rates now, that somehow undermines 
our ability to respond to a future downturn. I think it’s a boost to the economy that will make it 
more likely that we can overcome that downturn should it emerge. 
That’s it. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written, 
and I want to make a couple of quick comments in response to the go-round on this. First of all, 
there’s this notion of talking our way into a recession. I actually think the statement is very 
carefully worded and has been for some time, and I’m sure the Chair’s comments will be 
consistent with that. You know, we say in paragraph 1 that “the labor market remains strong … 
economic activity has been rising at a moderate rate. . . . unemployment rate has remained low.” 
Paragraph 2: “… sustained expansion of economic activity, strong labor market conditions, and 
inflation near the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent objective are the most likely outcomes ...” 
So I do think that our message is one of a strong economy, an economy that’s in a good 
place. Really, the policy narrative is one about keeping it that way, maintaining a strong 
economy, increasing the momentum on getting us to our symmetric 2 percent inflation goal, and 
managing risks. I think it’s a complicated message, because we’re not looking at data that are 
weak and saying, “Oh, look at the weak data. We’re responding to that.” We’re actually acting 
in a preemptive, proactive way to address what we think of as significant risks and uncertainties 
regarding the outlook. 
The second thing I’d like to note is, I appreciate, in the flag end of the table, the support 
for the change in paragraph 2 by everyone who doesn’t support alternative B. But I think that 

this language actually does serve a good purpose here, and that is: “The Committee will 
continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook as it 
assesses the appropriate path ...” I think this isn’t a pause, and this isn’t a wait-and-see, but it 
will be understood, I think, by the public that this is a sign that we feel that we’ve gotten policy 
into a reasonably good place, given where the economy is and where the risks are. 
So I think that this does signal that—perhaps through code language, and perhaps not as 
clearly as President Mester and I would like—but I think it will be understood that way. And I 
think the Chair will, as he already described yesterday, get the message across. So this language 
will, I think, be understood that way. 
I’d like to go back to the policy decision. Since the start of the year, the global economic 
outlook has deteriorated, uncertainties have intensified, and inflation has moved below our 
longer-run target. Our previous two rate cuts were preemptive medicine to mitigate the spillover 
of these developments onto our economy and provide insurance against potential downside risks. 
This approach of staying ahead of the curve has served us well in helping keep the economy on 
track and bring inflation back toward our 2 percent symmetric goal despite considerable 
headwinds. 
Recent data show the slowing global economy. The materialization of some of those 
uncertainties that have been worrying us is leaving an imprint on the economy, and, as President 
Bullard mentioned, we now see the economy growing at or slightly below its potential growth 
rate. 
Despite a rebound from low readings early in the year, core inflation is likely to run 
below the target for some time. And I agree with—I don’t think I’ve got everybody’s name 
here—Governor Clarida and Presidents Evans and Bullard about concerns about inflation 

expectations or, at least, our measures of inflation expectations being too low and not moving in 
the right direction. 
In terms of policy options, I view one more cut to the target range for the funds rate as 
appropriate to offset negative shocks and manage these risks. In my view, acting now with a 
relatively high hurdle for a December cut is consistent with incoming information and keeps us 
well positioned in terms of risk management. 
Now, going back to metaphors, I agree completely with the message that President 
Kashkari made—that we don’t want to think about keeping our powder dry, I think. The car 
thing kind of reminded me of Bullitt, with the cars flying over the hills in San Francisco 
[laughter], so I’m not going to continue that. I will say that I was not a Boy Scout, so when I 
can’t light damp wood, I use lighter fluid, and that seems to work, [Laughter] 
MR. BARKIN. That was an argument for for alternative A, I guess. [Laughter] 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. The biggest challenge—and I agree here with President 
Mester, Governor Brainard, and, quite honestly, pretty much everybody here—is that we need to 
be able to signal consistently and effectively that policy is in a relatively good place, with no 
presumption of further cuts, while we remain vigilant and data dependent. And I think here—
really being steady and consistent in our communications, regardless. I mean, I think we’re 
going to be tested on Friday, honestly, on the employment report. Presuming it comes out the 
way we expect, we think that that’s likely to be heavily influenced by the GM strike. So when 
these kinds of data that can be noisy or give mixed signals come in, we just need to be on 
message and continue to do our best to manage this balance of that policy is in a good place, but 
at the same time we’re not under some kind of a preset course. Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Let me now ask Jim to make clear what the FOMC will 
vote on and to read the roll. 
MR. CLOUSE. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The vote will be on the monetary policy 
statement as it appears on page 4 of Thomas’s briefing materials, and the vote will also 
encompass the directive to the Desk as it appears in the implementation note on pages 6 and 7 of 
Thomas’s briefing materials. 
Chair Powell Yes 
Vice Chair Williams Yes 
Governor Bowman Yes 
Governor Brainard Yes 
President Bullard Yes 
Governor Clarida Yes 
President Evans Yes 
President George No 
President Rosengren No 
Governor Quarles Yes 
CHAIR POWELL. The Board now needs to vote on interest on reserves and discount 
rates. We have two sets of related matters under the Board’s jurisdiction: corresponding interest 
rates on reserves and discount rates. May I have a motion from a Board member to take the 
proposed action with respect to the interest rates on reserves as set forth in the first paragraph 
associated with policy alternative B on the second-to-last page of Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. Now may I have a motion from a 
Board member to take the proposed actions with respect to the primary credit rate and the rates 
for secondary and seasonal credit as set forth in the second paragraph associated with policy 
alternative B on the second-to-last page of Thomas’s briefing materials? 

MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Thanks very much. Our final agenda item is to 
confirm that the next meeting will be on Tuesday and Wednesday, December 10 and 11. And 
that concludes this meeting. A buffet lunch will be served at 11:30. Thanks, everyone. 
END OF MEETING

===== FOMC MEETING 2019-12-11 =====

Meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on 
December 10–11, 2019 
 
A joint meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and the Board of Governors was held in 
the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on 
Tuesday, December 10, 2019, at 10:00 a.m. and continued on Wednesday, December 11, 2019, at 
9:00 a.m. 
 
PRESENT: 
Jerome H. Powell, Chair 
John C. Williams, Vice Chair 
Michelle W. Bowman 
Lael Brainard 
James Bullard 
Richard H. Clarida 
Charles L. Evans 
Esther L. George 
Randal K. Quarles 
Eric Rosengren 
 
Patrick Harker, Robert S. Kaplan, Neel Kashkari, Loretta J. Mester, and Michael Strine, 
Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee 
 
Thomas I. Barkin, Raphael W. Bostic, and Mary C. Daly, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco, respectively 
 
James A. Clouse, Secretary 
Matthew M. Luecke, Deputy Secretary 
David W. Skidmore, Assistant Secretary 
Michelle A. Smith, Assistant Secretary 
Mark E. Van Der Weide, General Counsel 
Michael Held, Deputy General Counsel 
Steven B. Kamin, Economist 
Thomas Laubach, Economist 
Stacey Tevlin, Economist 
 
Rochelle M. Edge, Eric M. Engen, Christopher J. Waller, William Wascher, Jonathan L. 
Willis, and Beth Anne Wilson, Associate Economists 
 
Lorie K. Logan, Manager, System Open Market Account
1 
 
Ann E. Misback, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors 
 
 
1 The Committee appointed Lorie K. Logan to serve as the manager of the System Open Market Account at the 
conclusion of the meeting. 

Eric Belsky,2 Director, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors; 
Matthew J. Eichner,3 Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, 
Board of Governors; Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
Board of Governors; Andreas Lehnert, Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors 
 
Trevor A. Reeve, Deputy Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Jon Faust, Senior Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of 
Governors 
 
Joshua Gallin, Special Adviser to the Chair, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Brian M. Doyle, Wendy E. Dunn, Joseph W. Gruber, Ellen E. Meade, and Ivan Vidangos, 
Special Advisers to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Linda Robertson, Assistant to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors 
 
Shaghil Ahmed, Senior Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of 
Governors; Diana Hancock, Senior Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, 
Board of Governors 
 
Antulio N. Bomfim and Robert J. Tetlow, Senior Advisers, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors 
 
Eric C. Engstrom, Senior Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, and Deputy Associate 
Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Elizabeth K. Kiser, Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of 
Governors; Elizabeth Klee, Associate Director, Division of Financial Stability, Board of 
Governors; David López-Salido, Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of 
Governors 
 
Glenn Follette, Patrick E. McCabe,
4 and John M. Roberts, Deputy Associate Directors, 
Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors; Matteo Iacoviello and Andrea 
Raffo,
5 Deputy Associate Directors, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors; 
Jeffrey D. Walker,2 Deputy Associate Director, Division of Reserve Bank Operations and 
Payment Systems, Board of Governors 
 
Etienne Gagnon, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; Paul 
Lengermann, Assistant Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
2 Attended through the discussion of the review of the monetary policy framework. 
3 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations. 
4 Attended Tuesday’s session only. 
5 Attended through the discussion of developments in financial markets and open market operations, and from the 
discussion of current monetary policy through the end of the meeting. 

Penelope A. Beattie,2 Section Chief, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors; Seung J. 
Lee,6 Section Chief, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors 
 
David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors 
 
Michele Cavallo and Kurt F. Lewis, Principal Economists, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors; Laura J. Feiveson,
2 Principal Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics, Board of Governors 
 
Nils Goernemann,
2 Senior Economist, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors 
 
Donielle A. Winford, Information Management Analyst, Division of Monetary Affairs, 
Board of Governors 
 
Becky C. Bareford, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
 
David Altig, Michael Dotsey, Jeffrey Fuhrer,
2 and Sylvain Leduc, Executive Vice Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Philadelphia, Boston, and San Francisco, respectively 
 
Todd E. Clark, Marc Giannoni,
2 and Spencer Krane, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Dallas, and Chicago, respectively 
 
Jonathan P. McCarthy, Alexander L. Wolman, and Patricia Zobel, Vice Presidents, Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Richmond, and New York, respectively 
 
Thomas D. Tallarini, Jr., Assistant Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
 
Karel Mertens,
2 Senior Economic Policy Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
 
Daniel Cooper, Senior Economist and Policy Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
 
Scott Davis, Senior Research Economist and Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
 
Julie Hotchkiss,
2 Research Economist and Senior Advisor, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
 
 
 
6 Attended the discussion of economic developments and the outlook. 

Transcript of the Federal Open Market Committee Meeting on 
December 10–11, 2019 
 
December 10 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Good morning, everyone. This meeting, as usual, will be a joint 
meeting of the FOMC and the Board. I need a motion from a Board member to close the 
meeting. 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Before we get started, I’d like to say a few words 
about Paul Volcker, who, as you know, died earlier this week. Paul served as Chair of this 
Committee from 1979 to 1987. 
He accomplished many things during his long and distinguished career here at the Fed 
and elsewhere. Of course, he’s best known for leading the fight to tame the double-digit 
inflation that he inherited as Chair, thus laying the foundation for the prosperity and price 
stability that we enjoy today. But what is perhaps most admirable about him, more than his 
many accomplishments, is his character. He believed that there is no higher calling than public 
service, and he dedicated the lion’s share of his life to it. With courage, integrity, and tenacity, 
he always pursued the policies that he believed would ultimately benefit all Americans. And I 
know we all draw inspiration from his example. The nation owes him a debt of gratitude. And 
now I invite you to join me in a moment of silence to pay our respects to this most distinguished 
member of the Fed family. [Extended silence] 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Thanks, everyone. Our first agenda item is the fourth 
installment on our strategic review of the monetary policy framework. Let’s get started with the 
staff briefings from Karel Mertens and Ellen Meade. Karel, would you like to begin? 

MR. MERTENS.1 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I will be referring to the “Material for 
Briefing on Review of Monetary Policy Framework” handout. 
Over the past few decades, wealth and income inequality in the United States 
have increased. Although this is primarily due to structural forces beyond the 
influence of monetary policy (such as technological change, demographic trends, or 
globalization), as noted on the first slide, rising inequality may contribute to the 
challenges posed by the effective lower bound. For example, some research suggests 
that inequality trends contribute to lowering r*, as the higher concentration of wealth 
among high-saving households increases the net supply of savings, thereby lowering 
the required return. In addition, if greater inequality means that more households are 
living paycheck to paycheck, aggregate consumption is more sensitive to fluctuations 
in aggregate income than it would be if inequality was lower. This dynamic amplifies 
the effect of declining aggregate income, worsening economic downturns, an effect 
that is especially pronounced once the policy rate hits the ELB. 
The memo illustrates the latter point in simulations of two versions of a New 
Keynesian model. The first is a representative agent new Keynesian—or RANK—
model in which households are perfectly insured against all individual earnings risk, 
and inequality plays no role in macroeconomic dynamics. The second model is a 
heterogeneous agent new Keynesian—or HANK—model. This model recognizes 
that households cannot perfectly insure against earnings risk and that, because of 
liquidity constraints, spending decisions are sometimes constrained by available 
income. In principle, there are many aspects of wealth or income inequality that 
might be important for macroeconomic dynamics and welfare. In this model, one 
aspect of inequality that matters in particular is the share of people at or near the point 
of being liquidity constrained. A larger share of liquidity-constrained households 
makes aggregate consumption more dependent on current income. In the HANK 
model, the share of constrained households, and, thus, the aggregate dependence on 
current income, increases endogenously in recessions and makes the economy overall 
more sensitive to shocks. 
Away from the ELB, traditional interest rate policy remains relatively effective in 
the HANK model, because the increased dependence of consumption on current 
income also makes the stabilizing effects of monetary policy stronger than in the 
RANK model. However, as suggested a moment ago, economic outcomes are 
significantly worse in the HANK model once the policy rate hits the ELB, because 
monetary policy is less effective in offsetting the decline in income during a 
recession. The stronger multiplier effects associated with binding liquidity 
constraints thus exacerbate downturns. For example, the average unemployment rate 
in the HANK model is 0.6 percentage point higher than in the RANK model, and the 
standard deviation of unemployment is almost twice as large. 
While we focus on the role of liquidity-constrained consumers in this model, the 
share of households that are liquidity constrained is likely correlated with standard 
 
1 The materials used by Mr. Mertens and Ms. Meade are appended to this transcript (appendix 1). 

measures of inequality. To the extent that this is the case, models such as HANK 
suggest that the costs of the ELB are likely larger than estimated in more traditional 
models. 
The success or failure of monetary policy in stabilizing economic fluctuations 
also affects inequality, because, as noted on slide 2, the costs of cyclical fluctuations 
are not borne equally by all households. In practice, unemployment rates for 
minorities, the young, or the less educated rise disproportionally during recessions. 
Those who are hit the hardest in a downturn tend to also benefit disproportionally 
in a strong economy. Based on past economic expansions, however, the evidence is 
that these benefits mitigate, but not fully offset, the negative effects of recessions. 
For these reasons, monetary policy strategies that succeed in reducing the frequency 
and severity of recessions are, all else being equal, likely to decrease economic 
inequality in the long run. 
Monetary policy also has short-run distributive effects, and these effects may 
influence the breadth of public support at the time of implementation of specific 
strategies. Policies that deliberately seek a mild overshoot of the longer-run inflation 
goal—such as average inflation targeting—may in theory lead to better 
macroeconomic outcomes by providing additional stimulus through lower expected 
interest rates and higher expected inflation in a downturn. Such policies would lead 
the Committee to be at times more accommodative than would be the case under a 
“let bygones be bygones” strategy. 
The memo provides an overview of some of the main distributive effects of looser 
policy following a downturn for working age and elderly households at different 
levels of income. Many factors help determine the effect of monetary policy on 
individual households. Important dimensions include differences in the composition 
of income, of net worth, and of consumption baskets. As detailed in the memo, 
looser monetary policy in the short run likely benefits most working-age 
households—in particular, borrowers and the working poor—but may be less popular 
among many upper-middle-income retirees because of losses in interest income. 
Finally, turning to slide 3, we reevaluate the performance of the inflation makeup 
strategies that were considered in the memos discussed at your August meeting, 
comparing the model in which inequality is irrelevant for aggregate dynamics with 
that in which inequality matters because of liquidity constraints. In these makeup 
strategies, the policy rate depends on the output gap as well as on the average of 
inflation over some horizon. 
In the wake of a severe adverse demand shock, each of the inflation makeup 
strategies succeeds in reducing the rise in unemployment and the drop in inflation. 
These strategies remain effective in the economy with liquidity-constrained 
households, largely through the same mechanisms as in the standard model—by 
raising inflation expectations and lowering real interest rates. However, the 
stabilization gains are larger in the model with liquidity constraints, especially when 

the policy rate hits the ELB. This is primarily because additional spending by the 
more interest-rate-sensitive consumers raises incomes of constrained households, 
which prevents sharper and self-reinforcing reductions in spending and employment 
through multiplier effects. In the simulation results, inflation makeup strategies 
reduce the long-run average unemployment rate by approximately 0.4 to 
0.5 percentage point, which is substantially more than in the model without liquidity 
constraints. In practice, such a reduction in aggregate unemployment would almost 
certainly be larger for particularly vulnerable subgroups—the historical average 
suggests roughly twice as large for black men or high school dropouts. As noted in 
the memos discussed at the September meeting, the potential for gains from such 
policies depends on several important assumptions—including that the public 
understands, believes, and reacts to policymakers’ commitments. But we conclude 
that, overall, a number of distributional considerations are likely to reinforce the 
beneficial effects of makeup strategies. 
MS. MEADE. Thank you, Karel. My presentation begins on slide 4 of your 
briefing handout. 
Between the end of February and mid-October, the System hosted 14 public 
events as part of the Fed Listens initiative, the outward-facing piece of your review of 
monetary policy strategy, tools, and communication practices. These events engaged 
the public directly on issues pertaining to the dual-mandate objectives. While the 
System already devotes substantial resources to community engagement, these events 
were seen as employing a somewhat different focus, in that you were more directly 
seeking input from diverse communities and constituencies on the effects of your 
policy actions. The staff background memo provided detail about the events 
themselves. In the remainder of my remarks, I will review the key “takeaways” 
discussed in that memo. 
First, the representatives of underserved communities generally saw the current 
labor market conditions as providing significant benefits to their constituents—
primarily employment opportunities for individuals who had experienced difficulty 
finding employment in the past. Many noted that labor market conditions in these 
underserved communities were far from “hot,” in contrast to what the national 
statistics suggest. Participants at the events also expressed concern about the 
ramifications of the next downturn for these newly hired workers and whether the job 
experience they will have acquired by that time will allow them to sustain labor force 
attachment. 
Your next slide provides perspectives offered by small business owners and 
representatives from business organizations who saw the current labor market 
conditions as presenting challenges in terms of finding qualified workers to fill 
available positions. We heard many stories at the events about businesses partnering 
with workforce development agencies or community colleges to devise training 
programs or specialized curriculums to prepare available workers to meet job 
demands. Relatedly, we heard about a greater willingness on the part of firms to 
employ individuals who would not have been considered in less favorable labor 

market conditions, such as the formerly incarcerated or those who could not pass a 
drug test. 
In addition, business representatives generally did not report increasing wages as 
a means of attracting and retaining workers. Instead, they reported offering new 
training or education programs and adding or augmenting health care and other 
benefits. A growing emphasis on what was referred to as “workplace culture” may 
account for why more generous benefits and greater flexibility have become viable 
substitutes for higher wages. 
Your final slide reports perspectives on interest rates, inflation, and Federal 
Reserve communications. While businesses and community-development financial 
institutions generally found the low interest rate environment beneficial, 
representatives of underserved populations and retirees conveyed different views. A 
good portion of the populations in lower- and middle-income communities generally 
have little or no access to conventional credit. As a consequence, they often do not 
benefit when the interest rates on conventional credit decline as a result of the 
FOMC’s actions. And wealthier retirees have seen a decline in interest income on 
savings instruments. 
There was distinctly less discussion about inflation at the Fed Listens events than 
there was about the labor market. Participants acknowledged that inflation is low, 
and representatives of small businesses or business associations emphasized the 
importance of stable and predictable inflation for planning and decisionmaking. 
Participants representing the retired mentioned the rising costs of health care and 
prescription drugs as posing challenges for retirees on fixed nominal incomes, while 
those representing low- and middle-income communities pointed to the costs 
associated with basic necessities such as housing, utilities, and food. 
Finally, with regard to FOMC communications, participants in the events 
expressed appreciation regarding your willingness to engage with the public as part of 
the review and for the regular interaction that the community affairs teams around the 
System have on issues such as workforce development, education, and housing. 
However, we also heard that the Federal Reserve could do a better job in terms of 
tailoring its messages to different audiences and communicating with clear and 
simple language. When the possibility came up of making up for inflation below the 
Committee’s 2 percent objective, as it did at some of the events, participants 
generally had little or no understanding of policymakers’ concerns about too-low 
inflation. Thus, as you turn your attention to the communications leg of the review, 
you may want to consider how best to explain the outcome of the review to the 
broader public. 
That concludes our presentations, and we’d be happy to take your questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you very much. Are there any questions for Karel or Ellen? 
[No response] Okay. Seeing none, let’s turn to Governor Clarida. 

MR. CLARIDA. Thank you very much, Chair Powell, and a special thanks to the staff 
and the steering committee for the memos on distributional considerations and the review of our 
14 very successful Fed Listens events. 
I will have some specific comments on the memos in a moment. But please allow me 
right now to offer some general observations on where we stand in the review process. As we’ve 
understood from the start, this framework review is ambitious in scope—a scope that covers 
possible changes to strategy, toolkit, and communication. 
In July, we heard staff presentations on a review of our existing monetary policy 
framework and also heard about that at the Chicago conference. In September, we had staff 
briefings on framework alternatives to inflation targeting and in October on possible additions to 
our toolkit. 
In our October communications subcommittee discussions and in bilateral conversations 
with each of you since then, it has been suggested that before we begin to discuss specific 
potential changes to our statement on goals and policy strategy that we, as a Committee, would 
benefit from a staff memo on financial stability considerations that are most relevant to our 
framework review and, obviously, Committee discussion. 
So, in response to that feedback, Chair Powell has asked the steering committee to 
prepare a memo on financial stability, relevant for the framework review, for us to discuss at our 
January meeting. As the Chair has indicated, after we have had this final staff briefing on 
financial stability considerations, over the first several meetings of next year we will need to 
work together as a Committee to come to broad agreement, based on what we’ve learned from 
the review and the revisions to our Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy 
Strategy. The importance of this effort is based on the feedback received from many of you 

during our subcommittee outreach efforts before the October meeting, which indicated that the 
review has made clear that our existing statement does not adequately reflect the challenges and 
tradeoffs that we face today as policymakers. 
Now, this process of crafting a new statement will take time and needs to—and will—
proceed in a patient and deliberate manner, informed by bilateral conversations with each of you 
and the Chair and with members of the subcommittee as well as discussions among all of us 
together at future FOMC meetings informed by staff memos. And this timetable for the first half 
of 2020 is entirely consistent with all of our public comments on the review that have 
emphasized the first half of 2020 as a time frame for its completion. 
Turning now to the steering committee memos themselves, I would like to make the 
following two points. First, we as a Committee are charged in our mandate with maintaining 
maximum employment, and the Fed Listens events and the staff briefings reinforce the message 
that the benefits to achieving and sustaining maximum employment are substantial and seem 
likely, perhaps through hysteresis channels, to endure beyond the eventual peak of the present 
business cycle. 
From the 1970s through the Global Financial Crisis and its aftermath, the U.S. economy 
has spent far more time operating below estimates of maximum employment than it did 
operating above maximum employment. As a consequence, we simply have fewer data points 
and episodes with which we can precisely estimate the benefits of operating in the range of 
maximum employment. Thus, there has been, and continues to be, an understandable tendency 
in the economics profession to focus instead on the potential inflationary cost of overshooting 
maximum employment. 

But in year 11 of this expansion, with both inflation and inflation expectations running 
below our objective, those potential future costs seem today, at least in expectation, to be modest 
and manageable, compared with compelling benefits that we have learned about during our 
review, and in these memos, of sustaining employment in the range of its maximum level. More 
specifically, in the absence of any evidence that the labor market is a source of actual excessive 
cost-push pressures, a case can be made that our communication should focus on the wide range 
of labor market indicators that we review and not highlight just one measure of u* that we 
include in our Summary of Economic Projections (SEP). 
Speaking of the SEP, in my projections I wrote down a core personal consumption 
expenditure (PCE) inflation path that rises modestly above 2 percent under optimal policy, and 
that keeps the policy rate below my estimate of r* through the horizon. Of course, were there to 
emerge durable and compelling evidence that expected inflation was beginning to rise above our 
target, which is not in my modal case, appropriate policy would, of course, call for moving the 
funds rate into restrictive territory. 
Second, we learned from the excellent memos on distributional considerations that costs 
of falling well short of maximum employment during recessions are much more substantial in 
models augmented with realistic heterogeneous agent—or HANK—frictions than are the costs 
implied by representative agent models, which are still prevalent in much analytical work. 
It’s fair to say that many of us, including myself, who have worked on these 
representative agent models have long known that they are likely to understate the cost of 
recessions, but this recent research summarized in the memo begins to quantify in a rigorous way 
the benefits of staying out of recessions in the first place and keeping the depth and duration of 
downturns modest and brief. 

Of course, as the memo highlights, the effective lower bound (ELB) constraint overlays 
an additional friction, which in these models levies a higher cost than is typically the case in the 
simpler representative agent models. To me, this reinforces the importance of anchoring 
inflation expectations at our target before we hit the next ELB. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And let me say at this point, thanks to everyone who 
worked on the framework review this year and the team who managed the 14 Fed Listens events. 
I personally think that this has been a great experience and a really important one for the Fed as 
a whole. 
When I’m thinking about all of this, and in the memo specifically, in the context of our 
dual mandate, a perennial challenge is defining what we mean by “maximum employment.” As 
Governor Clarida just said, in reaction to that, we tend to look for inflation pressures as the basis 
for a good definition, because we don’t really have much more to offer in this role. 
And I think this challenge is particularly relevant right now, as conventional wisdom has 
failed to fully explain the sustained concurrence of low employment and below-target inflation. 
In this context in particular, I found the Fed Listens events especially helpful, as they drew 
insights from a wide range of sources. And my key “takeaway” from these events is that the 
labor market may be much more elastic than we previously thought—and that we need to learn 
about its limits experientially, by seeing them in the data. 
To this end, at the San Francisco bank, we took on the idea that there are costs and 
benefits of a “hot” economy, and we wanted to ask people specifically what they were. And we 
defined a “hot” economy as one in which unemployment is below the consensus natural rate. 
And, across the board, participants, including former Congressional Budget Office (CBO) 

Director Doug Elmendorf, the current CEO of SkyWest, the past president of UPS Northern 
California, and the numerous representatives from workforce and housing development groups, 
all, to a person, talked about tradeoffs. And on the positive side, they started with the idea that 
tight labor markets draw in workers who otherwise would remain on the sidelines—what Ellen 
just talked to us about. 
When workers are hard to find, firms intensify their recruiting, and they relax rigid hiring 
standards that they may not need in order to fill their positions. And this helps less advantaged 
workers get a hand up in the economy, as we’ve heard, and it also boosts income, consumption, 
and economic well-being for those workers and their families and, importantly, chips away at 
some long-standing gaps between more and less advantaged groups, such as racial and ethnic 
minorities. 
These reports from participants actually correspond to recent research by myself and 
many others about the benefits of growth, so they were saying things that we had seen in the 
aggregate data, but they were saying them at the community level. 
Perhaps most strikingly, though, Doug Elmendorf and many others at our conference 
noted that tight labor markets have broader social benefits. They emphasized that employment 
imparts a sense of dignity and purpose to individuals and their families and helps many avoid 
troubling alternatives, such as criminal activity or opioid addiction. Those were the ones 
mentioned. 
Many suggested that these employment opportunities, even if not themselves permanent 
through the next recession, can have lasting effects. Parents who have jobs can provide more or 
better opportunities for their children and become a positive role model for what an inclusive 
economy or inclusive labor market means. And, extrapolating this, they acknowledge that these 

experiences can incent human capital investment in younger generations and ultimately lead to 
higher long-run growth in our economy. But, of course, a diverse set of factors ultimately affect 
labor market opportunities, and monetary policy is not a panacea for all societal problems. But 
the Fed Listens events highlighted the fact that monetary policy can and does do a lot of good by 
sustaining growth and probing to find the level of full employment, as long as offsetting costs 
don’t emerge. 
Now, turning to those costs, I actually was somewhat surprised to hear that across the 
board, of all of the individuals who participated that I described, at least in San Francisco, people 
take these costs very seriously. In fact, they had thought a lot about them—and that’s workforce 
development individuals and housing advocates and private-sector businesses. We had very 
robust discussions about housing inflation, financial excesses, and talent misallocation—pulling 
people out of school or training programs to take short-term jobs. And, of course, we heard 
about the difficulty finding workers. 
But when you push people and ask them, “What would you do if you were at the Fed?,” 
the consensus was, yes, there are costs, and they should be on our watch list, but, net–net, a 
strong and lengthy expansion is very beneficial. And this is consistent with my own read of the 
research evidence and leads to my view that in a low-inflation environment, with a stable 
financial system, we should let the economy run and determine empirically the true level of full 
employment. 
Now, in terms of question 2—“How do we explain to the public our concerns about 
persistently below-target inflation?”—I will return to my roots and a theme I’ve mentioned in 
many meetings. I grew up in Missouri, which, as many of you may know, is the “Show Me” 
state, so I think I’ve taken that on as a mantra for my life. And it informs me that we cannot 

simply talk about reaching 2 percent inflation and have people believe us or talk about 2 percent 
inflation and have people think that we really think it’s important for the economy or for 
monetary policy. 
We have to continually take actions, like the three rate cuts we took this year, to show the 
public that we are committed to achieving our target of price stability, defined as 2 percent 
inflation. But, of course, words can help, and here I think our current efforts to emphasize the 
danger of falling inflation expectations and loss of policy space are worth repeating and 
repeating and, as President Bostic said last time, repeating again. Ultimately, though, linking the 
importance of achieving the 2 percent inflation mandate to our ability to mitigate the effects of 
future recessions and taking actions that support that statement should resonate with the broader 
public, building credibility and, importantly, understanding. 
Now, finally, on the third question, which is what the HANK and other models were 
about, on the distributional consequences of our policy, my view is that our first-order 
responsibility and where we can have the first-order effect is to lay the foundation for better 
outcomes. We need to be aware of how our policy actions affect different segments of the 
population, absolutely, and how distributional considerations affect the transmission of policy to 
the broader macroeconomy. 
But, at the end of the day, our tools are best at achieving maximum employment and 
price stability in the aggregate. And, by executing on these goals consistently, we put the 
economy in the best position to allow fiscal and other agents to close long-standing structural 
distributional gaps. In other words, I came out believing that we can’t do it alone, but we have to 
do our part. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 

MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Once again, the staff has set the table well for an 
excellent discussion of important issues here today, and, seeing Ellen, I want to thank Ellen 
Meade so much for organizing the Fed Listens conferences, working with us in Chicago so well, 
and attending all of the meetings. They worked out fabulously well. 
I’ll address each of the questions in turn. Fed Listens meetings, especially the less 
academic portions, brought home the multidimensional importance of our task as monetary 
policymakers. What we do matters significantly for people with many different attributes and 
characteristics, cutting across the distributions of income, wealth, education, job skills, and 
geography. 
Delivering a strong economy with a robust labor market has substantial benefits in 
addition to helping us achieve our inflation objective today. Fed Listens events highlighted the 
experiences of individuals and groups that seemed almost perpetually mired in economically 
disadvantaged situations. These qualitative accounts are very important for us to hear. As data-
oriented analysts, we’ve been told by experts that it is difficult to establish rigorously the 
quantitative importance of hysteresis. But the experiences shared at our events suggest that a 
prolonged period of labor market strength could have lasting positive effects on the employment 
and earnings prospects of many people. This seems especially true for those disadvantaged 
individuals who are far from the middle-of-the-income and middle-in-skill distributions that our 
models typically focus on. 
We heard many powerful stories. Let me recount just one we heard at our Chicago event. 
It was from the leader of an organization that helps the formerly incarcerated reenter society. 
The strong labor market was making his organization’s work much more effective. Starting two 
or three years ago, more employers began to contact them with offers to collaborate. As a result, 

many former prisoners who never before had a strong connection to the labor market were 
finding productive employment and building skills that should greatly improve their chances for 
success over the long haul. The speaker also stressed that long-run success didn’t depend on the 
labor markets strengthening further, say, to an unemployment rate of 3 percent, but it was 
essential that employment opportunities remain vibrant. His clients are just stepping onto the 
bottom rungs of the job ladder and are likely to be the first people let go in a downturn. They 
need time to build skills through on-the-job experience. So continuing the expansion was critical 
for their long-term labor market success. 
As I said, there were many such stories at Fed Listens events, and the bottom line of these 
accounts is that many people need exposure to continuing job opportunities in order to cement 
their long-term attachment to the workforce. 
In a world of considerable uncertainty about the natural rate of unemployment and in 
which inflation has been less than 2 percent for some time, these considerations make me even 
more inclined toward policy that is true to our symmetric inflation objective. These job market 
gains for disadvantaged individuals are an important additional benefit of providing enough 
accommodation to move inflation above 2 percent in order to deliver on symmetry. 
This brings me to the second question of how we can best convey to the public the 
benefits of raising inflation to our 2 percent goal, but this is not an easy task. There isn’t enough 
time to discuss this important topic today. We could go on for hours, and everyone knows this is 
a credible threat on my part. [Laughter] But here are a few sound bites for much longer 
arguments I would use. First, standard microeconomics tells us that competition and free 
markets should deliver a real wage that is consistent with workers’ skills, labor availability, and 
firm demand. Inflation doesn’t enter the equation. Second, instead, most of the costs of inflation 

are not about its level, but about its variability and surprises relative to expectations. In today’s 
world, surprise 6 percent inflation would be bad, and surprise minus 2 percent inflation would be 
even worse. Third, when policymakers promise to deliver an economic outcome, they have a 
responsibility to do so. For us, that is 2 percent inflation. There are real costs when we fail 
to deliver. 
The example that I give is about the American dream of owning a home. Borrowers 
stretch to buy houses, financed with fixed-rate mortgages, with the expectation that their 
payments will become less onerous as their wages grow because of both real income growth and 
inflation. These expectations make sense under the terms of the contract of the fixed-rate 
mortgage. Failing to deliver on the expected inflation underlying this market mortgage rate and 
investment strategy thus has real implications. 
The risks of failure also show up in a mortgage rate with an excess inflation risk premium 
that is meant to compensate lenders for offering 30-year fixed-rate contracts at the Fed’s 
2 percent target inflation rate. The lender’s excess windfall is at the borrowing family’s expense 
and probably alters future home-buying abilities or increased mortgage distress. 
Another example is the brutal costs to the ELB if inflation runs too low. We’ve spent 
countless hours discussing these problems, so there’s no need to say more about them now. But 
if you don’t want to punish savers with lower-for-longer zero interest rates, then a useful 
preventive measure is to manage inflation better through the cycle. All this said, educating the 
public on the virtues of maintaining 2 percent inflation is not a one-and-done communications 
job. There is no simple way to do so. It is virtually human nature to suffer from money illusion. 
The obituaries for Paul Volcker were particularly poignant, and I noticed one story about 
how, when he was going to Princeton, his mother was offering him only a $25 monthly 

additional stipend or something, and this was the same $25 that had been offered to his older 
sisters. And he asked for more, and he thought he needed more as a male as opposed to his 
sisters or whatnot, but she insisted, only $25, even though it didn’t buy what it used to. And as 
he said, “She suffered from money illusion.” [Laughter] 
Money illusion is a problem for so many people. Most people think that a dollar is a 
dollar and that receiving 3 percent interest is always better than 1 percent interest, regardless of 
inflation. My staff didn’t want me to read the next line, because it’s so obvious to economists: 
Real interest rates are tough for the public to appreciate. Their eyes glaze over if you talk about 
real interest rates in speeches, much as our students. [Laughter] 
Finally, on the last question, let me end up with some more traditional monetary policy 
commentary. I found the discussion of HANK models very interesting. These models suggest 
that aggressive monetary policy in the vicinity of the ELB is even more effective and important 
than we’ve otherwise assumed. I don’t know the answer. This is still a new and exciting area of 
research. I applaud everybody doing this very interesting work. We have a lot to learn about 
these models. 
In any case, I was already convinced that we need to be aggressive when the ELB is an 
issue. Inspired by Governor Quarles’s fondness for quoting the movie Trading Places, I will 
paraphrase two iconic lines from the Tom Cruise movie Jerry Maguire: “You had me at 
aggressive monetary policy”—[laughter]—and “Show me the inflation.” I’m with Mary on that 
one. 
Ultimately, the HANK discussion reinforced how I was already thinking about our 
monetary policy strategy. Where ELB risks are prominent, we will want to follow outcome-
based policies that take strong actions to demonstrate our commitment to achieving our dual-

mandate goals. There are many ways we can communicate the rationale for these actions. We 
can talk about the general benefits of committing to rates that are lower for longer without 
getting into exactly who benefits the most. 
I don’t have an aversion, however, to noting that heterogeneity may make such policies 
even more beneficial, but the key point is that we make the commitment up front and follow 
through aggressively on the policies needed to achieve our goals. 
In sum, the Fed Listens events underscored the importance of our actions for the broader 
public. A commitment to strong policy actions is needed to deliver on both parts of our dual 
mandate in the presence of the ELB. This might generate additional benefits because of 
heterogeneity, but I do not think that we have to rely on distributional arguments to make the 
case for following a monetary policy strategy that truly delivers on our dual-mandate goals. We 
already knew that was the right answer. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Chair Powell. I’ll also follow the three questions in 
order. On the first question, I thought the Fed Listens tour was a good opportunity to have a 
two-way dialogue, albeit with an emphasis on listening to the public about our monetary policy 
framework and the effects of our policies on a wide array of populations. 
Three points were reinforced in these discussions. First, not surprisingly, the 
employment part of the mandate is very important to the public. Furthermore, the benefits of 
even a very tight labor market are not evenly distributed across different populations. We clearly 
heard that recent very tight labor markets have benefited many potential workers who do not 
benefit from a normal expansion. 

Second, periods of high aggregate unemployment differentially affect people and 
communities, creating scars that linger for those individuals and communities. Hence, these 
populations tend to see the cost of unemployment as higher than may be reflected in many of 
our models. 
Third, the public seems quite indifferent to small variations in inflation around 2 percent 
despite all of the passion in the previous discussion. The reasons for the FOMC’s current 
concern about inflation being modestly below its target are, therefore, not well understood. This 
highlights a need to communicate more simply and clearly with the public about why low 
inflation is a problem and, in particular, why we should be concerned about the constraint 
imposed on monetary policy by the ELB. As we determine changes to the framework, we should 
keep these communication challenges in mind. 
Regarding the second question, discussions about below-target inflation, particularly 
when the deviations are in a range that the public views as insignificant, will require making a 
clear connection between the attendant reductions in inflation expectations and the effect that has 
in reducing the interest rate space available to offset macroeconomic shocks. Given what I 
mentioned in my first point, achieving sustainable maximum employment, which the public 
wants, requires keeping inflation expectations anchored, providing us the room to react to 
adverse shocks with countercyclical monetary policy. 
For the third question, the heterogeneity discussed in the memo highlights the need to 
react more aggressively when it is clear that the economy is in a downturn. This is an important 
point to remember. However, we will need to balance the concern with the likelihood that 
pushing rates too low for too long also has important consequences for the potential duration of 
an expansion as well as the severity of the subsequent recession. 

Allowing inflated asset prices or, more generally, an economy with rising imbalances can 
increase the likelihood of incurring the high-unemployment periods that are so costly to 
communities we talked to in Fed Listens. Indeed, one of the most severe unemployment 
outcomes since the Great Depression occurred not when inflation was far from target, but when 
policy was arguably too sanguine about inflated asset prices and distortions in the financial 
sector. 
I very much look forward to the discussion at the next meeting. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also want to thank the staff for really great 
work on this issue of heterogeneity and how it plays into business cycle disturbances that 
propagate through the economy. So I really want to thank you for that work. I believe that 
assessing the differential effect—economic effects—that these shocks have is an important 
element in the design of any monetary policy framework. 
The key point is not solely based on the sound economic reasoning displayed in the 
memo, but is reinforced by my interactions with various groups in my region. One particularly 
informative interaction occurred from the Fed Listens event in Philadelphia. That conversation 
made abundantly clear that there are differential, cyclical economic effects felt by different 
segments of the population, as we’ve discussed before, especially those of lower income. 
Because the HANK model explicitly includes these segments of the population, I find it 
especially useful for our framework discussions. As well as showcasing the importance of 
heterogeneity on the household side, our event in Philadelphia highlighted the fact that firms are 
also differentially affected by cyclical movements in the economy. So it’s not just the consumer. 

Although the memo concentrates on the effects that alternative monetary policies have on 
the cyclical effects of demand shocks, I would conjecture that the optimal inflation rates and 
optimized Taylor rules would look different in the two classes of models, RANK and HANK. 
So perhaps the staff could revisit these issues, because I think they’re fundamentally important to 
our framework discussions. 
The severe hysteresis-type effects that occur in the ELB events are a particularly poignant 
reason why we should have a positive inflation rate and perhaps one that is somewhat higher 
than 2 percent. As well, the possibility of downward nominal wage rigidities could exacerbate 
poor labor market outcomes that occur as a result of negative demand shocks. Such possibilities 
suggest an additional reason for a positive inflation rate that would help grease the labor market 
wheels. Although not all models of downward nominal wage rigidity arrive at this conclusion, 
such an outcome does remain a theoretical possibility. 
One of the drivers of negative hysteresis in HANK models arises from interactions with 
consumer credit. When individuals have a negative credit history, it often makes finding a job 
more difficult, as potential employers often use the credit history as one factor in their hiring 
decisions. Work done by the Philadelphia bank staff documents the increase in default rates 
during a recession. So, HANK models may have implications for regulations surrounding 
consumer credit and, perhaps, employment that are beyond the monetary policy tools that we 
have. 
Another policy-related aspect arising in HANK models and that seems relevant in the 
current environment is the deleterious effect of maintaining low rates for a long time that arises 
through asset prices, as President Rosengren just mentioned. A persistent low-rate policy could 
inflate prices of both financial and housing wealth, which exacerbates income inequality. Higher 

house prices make it more difficult for new home buyers to enter the housing market. This 
hypothesis is consistent with the recent stagnation in home ownership rates despite the current 
vibrancy in labor markets. 
So the results from the HANK literature highlight the relevant concerns pertaining to the 
disparate effects that are felt over the business cycle, especially when they involve an ELB event. 
To me, they indicate that we should adopt some form of makeup strategy once inflation exceeds 
2 percent. The potential for dampening the pain of a recession felt by the lower portion of the 
income distribution makes for a compelling argument to that approach. Of course, exactly how 
to implement such a makeup strategy that is credible remains a challenge. 
To me, the best approach for now is one in which we continually reemphasize that 2 
percent is not a ceiling on inflation and then, as President Daly said, “walk the talk” by letting 
inflation run above this target for a period of time. The revision of our statement language will 
be an important step in communicating this strategy, and I look forward to next year’s 
discussions. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let me comment first on the Fed Listens 
events. I think I agree with everyone around the table here that these were generally very good 
and welcomed—very successful. In St. Louis, we brought together all of our various councils all 
at one time to do our Listens event, and it seemed to come off quite well. 
One remark I would have on this process is that I think that our message should be that 
we listen all the time, not just once in a while. All 12 Reserve Banks do have extensive outreach 
programs in the 12 Districts, as mentioned in the staff presentation, and I think we should play 
that up when we’re talking about this kind of issue. 

The types of comments that were made were certainly very interesting, as always, and are 
also well summarized in the staff report here. But they also built on commentary that we get 
through our continuous listening programs: aspects of labor market stresses, access to credit 
markets, pricing and inflation, and feedback on Fed communications. 
I want to use the bulk of my time to outline my own view on heterogeneous agent 
macroeconomics following the very nice staff memo by Feiveson and others. My main 
messages and “takeaways” on this topic are as follows. First of all, I think heterogeneous-agent 
macroeconomics is the future of macroeconomics, and the Fed needs to have models that are 
conversant on these issues. 
The second “takeaway” will be that the current literature—the so-called HANK versus 
RANK models—is certainly fascinating but, in my opinion, is insufficiently mature to use for 
policy purposes at this juncture. Accordingly, I think our position should be that we will work 
more on this issue and more on heterogeneous agent models, but we’ll also recognize that actual 
policy recommendations coming from the current generation of heterogeneous agent models, 
such as what policy rule to employ, will depend heavily on model details. Policy 
recommendations might easily be reversed as a result of small changes to the model. But that 
just reflects the fact that the literature isn’t completely mature at this point. We’ve got a ways to 
go, both inside the Fed and in academia, on these issues. 
What I think we can do as a Committee is be prepared to clearly delineate what we see as 
appropriate macroeconomic policy responsibilities in a world with substantial inequality. That 
is, we can be conversant on these issues versus silent on these issues. I think that, historically, 
when this kind of topic has come up, we have said things like, “It’s not in our model,” “We don’t 
have anything to say about that,” or “We’re not sure what the implications are of that.” I think 

we’re not going to be able to get away with answers like that again. We’re going to have to be 
conversant. We’re going to have to be able to say, “We looked at this, and here’s what we think 
about it.” 
So I’m going to give you my take on how these models work. Just a few comments here, 
because I have been thinking about this a lot. I have a talk called “Classic Policy Benchmarks,” 
if you want to see it, on my webpage. 
I think the structure of, and the desire in, these models is to get more granular so that we 
can better understand the disparate effects of monetary policy on different households in the 
actual economy. The models have five ingredients, in my opinion. They have a set of aggregate 
shocks that are the usual aggregate shocks that we would talk about to total factor productivity or 
demand or labor supply. They also need to have life-cycle aspects, in my opinion, to be credible. 
The life-cycle aspect, above all, means that there is something like peak earning years for 
households that is a feature of the world that, unfortunately, macroeconomics typically abstracts 
from but is very important in the real world. Certainly, people between the ages of, let’s say, 
40 and 60 are going to earn the bulk of their lifetime income in that phase, and you have to have 
that as part of the model. So what that does is, it creates a natural credit market in which 
middle-age people want to save for retirement and young people want to pull consumption 
forward in the life cycle. 
That natural credit market is quite large. If you look at mortgage-backed securities and 
mortgage credit generally, it’s about $14 trillion today in the U.S. economy. So it’s not a small 
market. It’s not something that really should be ignored when we do macroeconomics. Also, as 
was mentioned earlier by President Evans, there are important nominal frictions in these credit 
markets because people are assigning nominal contracts at nominal interest rates, and they have 

an expectation of inflation, but actual inflation might not come up to meet that expectation. So, 
in the jargon of macro, that’s a nominal friction that could be quite important. 
So you have this natural credit market, and then you have two more ingredients. This is 
going to get very complicated, because you also want to have personal shocks to your own life, 
so-called idiosyncratic risks or shocks to employment opportunities. You could think of that as 
an unemployment shock, maybe a health shock as well. That’s the kind of thing that’s very 
important in individual lives but generally gets abstracted from in the kinds of macroeconomic 
models that we use. 
And, finally, there’s a very important beginning-of-life human capital assignment that 
goes on in the economy, whereby we come into the economy and make decisions when we’re 
20 years old. We have some amount of parenting behind us, some amount of education behind 
us, and now we’re going to go out there in the real world, and we’re going to make our own 
economic decisions. That is super uneven in the U.S. economy, and we know that that predicts 
the bulk of lifetime earnings for various people in the economy. So you’d like to have that in the 
model. 
If you put all of these things into one model—believe it or not, you can do it—you can 
get the GINI coefficients for the U.S. economy about right. And just to fix ideas here, the 
consumption GINI in the United States is about 0.32, the income GINI is about 0.51, and the 
financial wealth GINI is about 0.8. So a model of this type that has all this stuff in it is going to 
be able to talk coherently about the inequality that we observe out there in the data. 
Now, the question is—boy, this is a beast—what should policymakers do? And I think 
there is a simple way to think about this that will dovetail with what we often say about this 
issue. I’m going to posit four different types of policymakers: a monetary, a fiscal, a labor, and 

an education policy. And acting in concert, these four types of policy can actually get you back 
to the very best allocation of resources in this economy. That’s why I called this “classic policy 
benchmarks.” 
So the monetary policy guys, like us, would meet often, assess aggregate shocks, and 
adjust interest rates just like we do and just like would be done in a New Keynesian RANK or a 
New Keynesian framework or in the HANK model. There’d be a fiscal authority that sets taxes 
for the long term. They set a tax policy that raises the right amount of revenue to fund the 
government. You’d have a labor market policy that provides unemployment insurance—or you 
could possibly think about that as health insurance as well, but social insurance that’s providing 
insurance against idiosyncratic risks faced by households and the economy. And, finally, you 
have some kind of education authority that is doing something about whatever is happening to 
people before they start their decisionmaking process in the economy—so, before age 20 or 
25, how is that process working out nationally? 
What you want is all four of those types of policies working perfectly together in this big, 
complicated model. And if you do that, then you can get a very good outcome. So what are the 
messages from this parable that I’m telling you? One is that this set of policies actually looks 
like what is being attempted in OECD economies. You go across all of these economies, and 
you will see policies of these different types. Another message would be that these policies are 
very poor substitutes for one another. Whatever is going on in the education process, us moving 
interest rates around isn’t going to fix that or change that very much. So I think that you have to 
have that in mind, that even the very nature of these different types of policies is very different. 
So I certainly think that heterogeneous-agent macro models are the wave of the future. 
They are able to address interesting facets of the data at more granular levels. The Fed needs to 

be conversant. As this research wave continues to gather momentum, I think all papers will be 
written like this in the future. The key question would be, is the nature of monetary policy 
practice going to be altered by this trend toward more careful consideration of microeconomic 
data in macroeconomic models, or is it essentially the same as what we do today? 
The RANK model’s core finding based on Clarida, Galí, and Gertler (1999) or Woodford 
(2003) is that monetary policy should strive to get the correct short-term real interest rate in the 
economy that would occur if there wasn’t anything wrong in the economy. I think this is still 
likely to be true in the heterogeneous-agent world as long as you have these other policymakers 
that are doing what they’re supposed to be doing. 
The point is that the larger heterogeneous agent model just has many more moving parts 
and many more frictions, and so it’s going to require types of policy other than just monetary 
policy in order to achieve a good outcome for the macroeconomy. I think this is a great message, 
because I think a lot of times when this Committee is asked in public about this issue, we often 
give this answer that these things depend on other types of policies. So this is just a 
formalization of that kind of argument. 
These other policies include labor market policies in particular, unemployment insurance, 
tax policies, and education policies. The story that I have told here may provide one way for this 
Committee to conceptualize the role of monetary policy as our models get more and more 
granular and try to confront additional microeconomic facts. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you. Before I start, I want to say a few words about Marvin 
Goodfriend, who, sadly, passed away last week at the young age of 69. Marvin built the research 
group in Richmond and, as our long-time research director, inspired our team with his passion 

and uncompromising commitment to quality. He would have loved being a part of this monetary 
policy framework discussion, even if that required speaking up from the back row. [Laughter] 
It’s a pity he can’t be here with us. 
Regarding the questions for today, the Fed Listens events were consistent with what I 
hear as I travel the Fifth District. The labor market is tight, bringing both benefits and 
challenges, and inflation is stable and not a big concern in either direction. 
The Chicago conference was great and actually provided me more insight, in particular 
the discussion by Sharon Kozicki of the Bank of Canada. Canada and most other inflation-
targeting countries use a range in addition to their point target. We don’t. Canada explicitly 
monitors multiple core inflation measures. We don’t. I think we ought to make sure our review 
explicitly discusses potential best practices like these from other central banks, and I’m not sure 
we’ve fully done that yet. 
On the second question, I do agree it’s hard to communicate our concerns over inflation 
somewhat below target; 1.7 percent versus 2.0 percent doesn’t resonate with the public. If we do 
feel the need to focus more on the risk of lower inflation expectations and potential deflation, 
again, a range is a useful tool to call out deviations beyond normal levels. 
Concerning the effects of heterogeneity, the HANK models may well provide improved 
assessments of the effects of monetary policy. And to the extent they do, I agree with those who 
say they should figure in all of our analysis. 
As far as the conclusions go, before reading the memo, I believed that makeup strategies 
had modest effects. And the analysis didn’t move me from that view. I do recognize that 
recessions affect low-income households disproportionately. I might note that logic doesn’t 
necessarily convince me that we should attempt to run the economy even “hotter.” Doing so has, 

at times in the past, actually led to recessions when we reversed policy abruptly or has, arguably, 
enabled financial instability. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. I appreciate the opportunity to discuss the review from 
the perspective of households that are in different parts of the income distribution. I want to 
touch briefly on four points. 
First, the notable increase in inequality in America is troubling for the health of our 
nation and has important implications for our work. With a large majority of American 
households relying primarily on wage income and with limited liquid savings, our focus on 
achieving maximum employment, buffering the economy against adverse shocks, and 
safeguarding a stable financial system is more important than ever. Not only low-income 
households, but also households at the middle of the income distribution have been negatively 
affected. If we look at the one-third of households between the 40th and 70th percentiles of the 
income distribution, staff calculations based on the distributional financial accounts show that 
middle-income families hold only 13 percent of all wealth—and that’s down from 19 percent 
three decades ago—while the top 10 percent has seen their wealth expand from 47 percent to 57 
percent. 
The gap is also large in absolute terms and has grown. The average middle-income 
household has wealth of about $340,000 in comparison with the top 10 percent average of 
$4.5 million, and that gap has increased from 7 times three decades ago to 13 times today. That 
is compounded for some minority groups by large and persistent gaps in wealth. In 2016, the 
average wealth of white households was 7 times that of black households and 5 times that of 
Hispanic households. Differences in educational attainment don’t account for those disparities. 

With relatively low net worth and financial assets, the livelihoods of most lower- and middle-
income families other than retirees depend primarily on compensation from working. Because 
the robustness of labor income over time is central to their well-being, the substantial 
strengthening of the labor market over this extended recovery has been a critical benefit to many 
people. 
The maximum employment leg of our dual mandate is serving the country exceptionally 
well, and this was a prominent theme we heard in our Fed Listens events. Even so, we heard 
from many of our speakers that the national employment statistics are not representative of their 
communities. Various groups, including minorities, out-of-school youth, formerly incarcerated, 
and the less educated continue to struggle. As Juan Salgado (the Chancellor of the City Colleges 
of Chicago) told us, “When I hear ‘full employment,’ that is not our reality.” While the national 
unemployment rate has been near 3½ percent for several months, the rate for African Americans 
is 5½ percent. The jobless rate for persons aged 25 and over with less than a high school 
diploma is also 5½ percent, and for persons aged 16 to 24, it’s 8 percent. Those groups also tend 
to have lower participation. 
Moreover, unstable earnings and disruptions associated with negative shocks are 
especially hard on households that have thin financial buffers. That turns out to be a strikingly 
large share of our population. Research based on the 2016 Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) 
shows that only about 4 in 10 middle-income households have enough liquid savings to cover 
three months of expenses. So the majority of middle-income households don’t have sufficient 
liquid savings to weather a typical disruption associated with a job loss or illness or severe 
weather event. Even modest unexpected expenses associated with an out-of-pocket medical 
expense or a car repair could set many households significantly back—and you are all familiar 

with the statistic from the Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking (SHED) that 
nearly 40 percent of adults would have to borrow, sell something, or not be able to pay an 
unexpected expense of $400. 
Moreover, research has shown that disadvantaged groups generally experience much 
greater-than-average increases in their unemployment rates during recessions. Indeed, Fed 
Listens participants expressed concerns about what will happen in the next downturn to those 
who have only recently started to benefit from the strong job market. As we heard, it’s great we 
have jobs, but we need to make sure we have sustainability. In addition, the current higher levels 
in inequality could exacerbate the severity of recessions, as was pointed out in the papers. This 
is because the larger the fraction of households that live paycheck to paycheck, the more 
sensitive consumption is to changes in earnings—which makes aggregate demand more sensitive 
to adverse shocks. These sobering realities underscore the importance of what our long-run 
statement made clear—that we are firmly committed to actively employing our full array of tools 
so that the effective lower bound is not an impediment to providing accommodation in the face 
of significant economic disruptions. 
However—and this is my second point—we also need to emphasize that robust 
countercyclical fiscal policy is vital, given the compression and conventional monetary policy 
buffers and the ability of such fiscal policies to be more targeted. Here I’m echoing President 
Bullard but from a less model-based perspective. The reduced conventional monetary policy 
space makes the importance of fiscal support even greater than it has been in the past, and the 
case for fiscal support is especially compelling, considering the low long-term interest rates that 
we are seeing. 

Monetary policy is a powerful instrument, but it is blunt. Fiscal policy can be more 
targeted in its effects, which is especially important in today’s environment of great inequality 
and the vulnerability of a large majority of households with low liquid savings to a downward 
spiral from spells out of work or higher-than-expected medical or housing expenses. As Pat 
Dujakovich (the President of the AFL-CIO in Kansas City) told us, it’s like a Slinky. If you pull 
from the top, it takes a whole lot to get the bottom up off the floor, but if you can get underneath 
it and move the bottom, it’s going to move a lot quicker, and you can change lives. 
Third, our regulatory and financial stability policies are also vitally important in 
safeguarding the financial resilience of low- and moderate-income groups, and here I think I’m 
echoing points made by Presidents Daly, Evans, and Harker. While the trends in inequality 
predated the Great Recession, they were greatly exacerbated by the scars of the financial crisis, 
which disproportionately destroyed wealth among lower- and middle-income groups. 
While the wealth of the top 10 percent of households is more than one-fifth higher than 
before the recession, the wealth of middle-income families still has not returned to its pre-crisis 
level, and lower-income families have a wealth shortfall to this day of 16 percent. As you know, 
the accumulation of equity in a home is the primary form of wealth building and economic 
security for many middle-class families. That’s why it was so damaging that home equity for an 
average middle-income household declined by almost two-thirds in the first part of the recession 
and recovery, and by the end of 2018, the home equity of the average middle-income family was 
still below the pre-recession level. 
For black households, the declines during and after the recession erased a decade of 
increases in homeownership. So we have to remember, the regulatory safeguards we put in place 
since the crisis are vitally important for protecting the financial security of middle- and lower-

income American households. And I’m pleased that we are going to be able to discuss financial 
stability in our framework discussion in January. 
Finally, as many others have said, the Fed Listens roundtables highlighted yet again the 
great value we derive from the community affairs networks that our Reserve Banks have built 
with such great care around the country. Our presence in communities across the country is 
based on our responsibilities in community reinvestment as well as in community bank 
examinations and payments, but it also provides us with critical insights into the health of our 
communities—both rural and urban—that are informative for purposes of monetary policy. I am 
really pleased that this network was invited to be an integral part of our policy review, and I also 
want to express appreciation for all of the work that Ellen Meade did to make that possible. 
One message we heard clearly is that while everyone who knows the Federal Reserve 
appreciates the work we do, our communications are not well targeted to these communities. So 
I hope that, in addition to the changes we make to our long-run strategy and toolkit, we 
undertake a review of our communications to make sure we’re not gearing our communications 
only to the most sophisticated Fed watchers, market participants, and media intermediaries, but 
also putting intentionality into communicating in different modalities and mechanisms with other 
groups. The Bank of England has undertaken such a review that might serve as a good example. 
Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank Karel Mertens and the entire 
team who worked on the memo on inequality and distributional considerations. And, again, like 
everyone else, I’d like to also thank Ellen Meade and the entire team that worked on these Fed 
Listens events. I think the Fed Listens events, like others have said, have been a great experience 

for all of us at the Fed. It has been healthy for the Fed, and I think it’s important that we 
continue to do these regularly and be seen to do these regularly, particularly discussions with, in 
my view, disadvantaged or underrepresented communities, and I’ll come back to that. 
I’ll start with the Fed Listens events. The two or three things that struck me were, 
number one, they reinforced the view about the benefits of running the economy “hotter” than 
we might have historically and the benefits of drawing in and retaining underrepresented workers 
into the workforce. And I think these events helped reinforce that further. 
Number two, like others have said, I think the concept of price stability is not well 
understood out there not only in at-risk communities, but also among businesses and small 
business owners. In particular, the risks are not well understood, as many others have said, of 
low inflation below our target. Most people out there I talk to in small business think we do have 
price stability now. And I do believe that once you introduce growth or the concept of nominal 
GDP growth into the conversation, it could further explain and amplify what the risks are of low 
inflation. 
We may have to brainstorm more on this, but I think we do need to do more work. And 
there’s a little bit of suspicion by some out there. As we seek to get inflation back to target, they 
wonder about the reasons behind it, including the benefits—this may inflame some people—to 
those who own risk capital and, particularly, the benefits when you’re running a very highly 
leveraged economy. I think we may need to explain more why it is not on our agenda to help 
those groups, but it is on our agenda to help make sure we’ve got more policy space and that we 
have more stable growth in the future. So as I’ve said before, I think we need to do more work 
on this. 

The third thing that struck me from these Fed Listens events is, as we’ve talked about 
many times before, significant structural changes are going on in the economy. And the Fed 
needs to be fluent in talking about these structural issues away from monetary policy, as I think 
President Bullard and others said, and some of the structural policies that may have an effect 
on that. 
In this regard, as has been said, and I think Governor Brainard just said, our Community 
and Outreach (C&O) groups are particularly useful to us, and we found that here in these Fed 
Listens events. Issues about the digital divide; access to financial services; the need for 
improved early childhood literacy; improved pre-K; investment in public schools to improve 
math, science, and reading; the need to beef up skills training—I think those subjects really came 
to the fore when we visited the Fifth Ward in Houston and went to St. Philip’s School and 
Community Center in Dallas. I think the more we can be fluent on these issues—which I think 
we are, because of our good C&O work—and are willing to talk about them in an apolitical way, 
the better it would serve us. I learned that from these Fed Listens events. 
Last comment on the distributional heterogeneity memo: Clearly, I believe that severe 
downturns—it makes sense—are going to affect those living paycheck to paycheck most, and it 
makes sense to try to manage the economy to avoid severe recessions. However, this raises the 
dilemma, which I’m sure we will continue to debate: How far do you go to avoid a recession? 
How far should this Committee go to get inflation to our 2 percent target or a 2 percent average? 
What are the risks of creating excesses and imbalances that make the next recession maybe more 
distant but likely more severe than it would have been otherwise? 
In what comes out of the framework review, I hope that we’ll keep some concept that 
relates to a balanced approach, the ability to make tradeoffs and weigh various factors, and that 

we will take into account financial stability in our monetary policy decisions. But I thought 
these memos were very, very useful, and I’m glad that we’re focused on these. 
And a last comment, though, when we talk about inequality, and I can’t help but reiterate 
again: Monetary policy—and I think we should be willing to say this when it comes to 
inequality—is not a substitute for these other structural reforms, which are likely to have even a 
bigger effect on improving the inequality or addressing inequality in this country. Thank you, 
Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. First, as everyone else has, I’d also like to 
thank the staff for their work on these memos. Both were very interesting and helpful for 
preparing for this discussion. 
The first memo on distributional considerations looked at how model-based assessments 
of different monetary policy strategies might change if we relaxed certain model assumptions 
that don’t correlate well with reality. In this case, the authors present us with an alternative 
model that takes into account the fact that some individuals have very different income 
experiences from others. Using their model with income inequality, they show us that the 
potential benefits of employing makeup strategies, like average inflation targeting, are larger 
than in the more traditional model in which everyone is the same. This result makes good 
intuitive sense to me. I appreciated this analysis, because I think it’s important to consider all of 
the different ways that the macroeconomic models we rely on for making policy decisions might 
lead us astray. 
But in the end, I wasn’t sure how much guidance to take from their analysis, because it 
leaves aside the important question of whether it’s likely or even possible that we could 

successfully commit to a makeup strategy, communicate it effectively, and maintain full 
credibility throughout its implementation. And I have to admit that I am skeptical that that 
would be the case. It seems to me that the credibility aspect would be very challenging and 
would require sacrificing the flexibility to adjust policy and communications when 
circumstances change unexpectedly. Even so, the distributional considerations memo was 
helpful in that it reminded me that the data we use to inform our policy decisions are, for the 
most part, national averages or aggregates, and these measures can mask important differences 
among individuals in the population. 
Without question, the experiences of people with regard to unemployment and job 
security can vary enormously. This relates to one of the main “takeaways” coming out of the 
Fed Listens sessions, with some participants noting that national statistics were not 
representative of their communities, whose unemployment rates have remained higher—and in 
some cases much higher—than the national average. This feedback is consistent with what I’m 
still hearing from people in certain industries or in different areas of the country who say that 
they are not experiencing the strong economy in the same way that they hear about it in the 
news. 
Another key “takeaway” from the Fed Listens events is that I think we need to think 
carefully about our communications with the broader public and make an even greater effort to 
speak in terminology that is more accessible to the general population. An important point that I 
came away with from these meetings is the real exclusivity created by the language the 
Committee has historically used to communicate. If our goal is to be more inclusive, we should 
strive to communicate in ways that can be understood by a broader audience than Wall Street and 
academia, as Governor Brainard said. 

Our written statement serves the very specific purpose of communicating to this technical 
audience, but I’d like to recognize and commend Chair Powell for his efforts to shift our broader 
communications approach to one that is more inclusive and accessible. I’d also like to recognize 
Governor Clarida for his creation of the Fed Listens initiative and the support that the presidents 
and Ellen Meade have given to this effort and for their support of this successful initiative. 
Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to thank the staff for these memos and for 
all of the framework memos. I also want to thank those who worked on the Fed Listens series. I 
wasn’t here when the previous framework was settled on by this Committee, but this process has 
been quite helpful for me in thinking through the many issues and in articulating what the 
Committee is trying to do. 
Let me get to the three questions posed in the cover memo. I like the Fed Listens events 
and was pleased that leaders in both business and the community were willing and able to have 
good discussions on the implications of our pursuit of the dual-mandate goals as well as the 
quality of our communications. I found that the substance of these meetings confirmed much of 
what my regional executives and I have heard from our travels throughout the Sixth District, and 
it is reassuring to know that our meetings haven’t been anomalous. 
On the communications question, I think an important clarifying question to answer is, 
how broad a public do we think we need to be explaining our concerns about persistent below-
target inflation to? There are many possible targets, and I’m not clear on which ones the 
Committee believes are most important. I think President Evans spoke to this in his review of 
Volcker and the money illusion and noting that the effort to engage some populations can 

actually be quite large. For me, I think the most salient audiences are likely to be financial 
market participants, leaders in business, and other policymakers. I also think the best strategy for 
effectively engaging each of these constituencies is different. 
Tailored strategies to specific audiences would be best, and there are many dimensions to 
consider. Take language, for example—and Governor Bowman just spoke about this. For 
financial market participants, it may be fine to use more technical language, but for business 
leaders, we will definitely need to use plainer language. And for policymakers, we are going to 
need to use just plain language. [Laughter] 
When we think about venues, I think, for financial market participants, standard 
conferences will be fine. We cover those quite well. But for business leaders, we might think 
about a more sustained engagement with those constituencies than we currently do. And for 
policymakers, we need to continue our Hill engagement, but perhaps use those opportunities to 
make more targeted messaging on this point of low inflation. I would note that financial market 
participants are the most immediate transmitters of our communications to the public, and though 
they certainly should not be our sole focus, the cost of not communicating effectively to that 
audience is likely to be quite high. All that said, I support Governor Brainard’s call to explore 
possible ways to effectively engage others. This is a quite interesting way to think about this. 
Regarding the third question on monetary policy and its effects on different segments of 
the population, I appreciate the effort of the staff to distill a literature that, in some ways, is still 
underdeveloped into a single, unified narrative. That said, I find myself unconvinced by the 
argument that, and I quote from page 6 of the memo: “Monetary policy strategies that reduce the 
frequency and severity of recessions are, all else equal, likely to decrease economic inequality.” 
I agree with the memo authors that we can serve the interests of lower-income households by 

pursuing monetary policies aimed at minimizing the frequency and duration of downturns, which 
I take as a given part of our mandate. But I think these policies are more likely to help in 
reducing precariousness and poverty than inequality per se. 
Let me explain. In thinking about the lower-for-longer strategy underlying this 
discussion, I see two competing dynamics. One involves the effect of the strategy on financial 
and investment instruments, while the other pertains to the effect on employment prospects. As I 
see it, the most direct effect of low interest rates is on the value of financial and investment 
assets and the cost of making such investments. This is a point that was noted first today by 
President Rosengren, but others have raised as well. And the Committee has noted in recent 
meetings that its policy decisions have helped bolster the value of housing, as one example, and 
many have argued that the elevated stock valuations that we observe are facilitated, in part, by 
the stance of monetary policy. 
Moreover, the benefit to those holding such assets can be quite large. And I would note 
that very few of those at the bottom of the income and wealth distributions who would need to 
benefit if inequality was going to fall have holdings such that they could benefit via this channel. 
Regarding employment prospects, it is certainly true that a longer expansion can result in more 
of the disconnected and the least skilled becoming employed, and this is a good thing. But it 
seems to me to be a big question as to whether the gains of this population outweigh the gains of 
the asset-holding class, which would be the requirement if inequality was to be reduced. My gut 
reaction tells me that the asset-holding invested classes gain more than the newly employed, but 
the memo did not speak to this directly. 
Now, I recognize that neither of these channels is unidimensional. Those with more 
valuable assets could use their improved economic standing to make investments that could 

create jobs that would employ those often left behind. Similarly, a longer expansion could create 
conditions that increase risk in the economy, which could trigger a downturn that results in the 
newly employed being the first to lose their jobs—a turnaround that could leave them worse off 
on net. This point was highlighted in recent research by the Atlanta Fed’s Julie Hotchkiss. 
There is one scenario in which this “last in, first out” dynamic could be resolved 
differently. To the extent that the new gains were, in part, the results of the historically high 
level of newly developed training programs and specialized curriculums, both of which were 
referenced in the Fed Listens memo, we might expect that they won’t be entirely eroded by the 
next economic downturn. This is because the newly added workers would be in a stronger 
competitive position from the new skills acquired via training than those in previous 
circumstances who faced a similar situation but lacked the enhanced skillset that training 
provides. I would note that this is not a new recognition. Okun himself pointed to the 
importance of what he called “manpower programs” to take advantage of “hot” economic 
environments to make sure that these periods trigger the upgrading of the skills of the workforce 
in addition to just creating jobs. 
On balance, despite the benefits of training and specialized curriculums, I think the case 
for monetary policy generally, and a lower-for-longer policy approach in particular, being able to 
help eliminate and alleviate distress, precariousness, and poverty is far stronger than the case for 
its being able to address inequality. As Governor Brainard strongly stated and others have 
pointed to today, fiscal policy, including tax policy, is going to be far more relevant where 
inequality is concerned. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 

MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I, too, want to thank Ellen Meade for 
the work that she did in helping us organize the Fed Listens events. Like others, I found the Fed 
Listens events to have been very useful in providing insights into the range of experiences felt by 
households and firms that are hidden beneath the aggregate macroeconomic statistics. These 
stories and experiences have been an important part of the economic narrative over the past 
decade as the economy began to heal from the deep recession. Even today, in an economy with 
historically low unemployment and low and stable inflation, we continue to hear, as we did in 
these events, how some households and firms and some industries and regions struggle with 
access to labor markets and with rising cost pressures. 
Understanding these struggles and the resulting uneven distribution of opportunities and 
outcomes has long been a critical issue for central bankers. This topic was the focus of our 
1998 Jackson Hole Symposium titled “Income Inequality Issues and Policy Options.” At that 
conference, Alan Blinder summed up a paper by David and Christina Romer by saying, 
“Compassionate monetary policy is, most likely, sound monetary policy.” Of course, judging 
what constitutes sound monetary policy in today’s context is the aim of our current monetary 
policy strategy review. Although the staff memo argues that distributional effects provide 
additional incentives to pursue monetary policy–defined strategies that reduce the frequency, 
duration, and severity of the ELB episodes, it is equally important that we recognize the limits of 
monetary policy in addressing these concerns. 
We should remember that monetary policy and inflation are not the main influences on 
long-run economic growth. Monetary policy is a blunt instrument. Although there are always 
winners and losers, we serve the public best by pursuing our mandate of maximum employment 

and price stability. An economy at full employment with stable prices is the greatest 
contribution a central bank can make toward lifting all boats. 
Explaining to the public the Committee’s concerns about persistent below-target inflation 
and the rationale for raising inflation to the 2 percent goal, as others have noted, is a challenging 
task. As our Fed Listens events have shown, some segments of the population simply don’t see 
inflation being too low as a problem. Trying to explain to the broad public the role of 
expectations in determining inflation is difficult at best, and trying to influence those 
expectations solely through our communications seems unlikely to be effective. Rather, it 
appears that inflation expectations may be more backward looking, and less tied to our longer-
run objective, than we would like. We can, and perhaps should, articulate the concept of makeup 
strategy to the public, but influencing inflation expectations will likely require an actual increase 
in inflation. My preference would be to wait for a demand or supply shock to move inflation 
higher rather than trying to engineer it at this stage of a lengthy expansion. Depending on the 
outlook for growth and employment, I am comfortable with inflation fluctuating in a narrow 
band above and below our symmetric 2 percent longer-run objective. 
Finally, I would be reluctant to justify a policy that was more accommodative than 
otherwise at the ELB simply on the basis of distributional issues. While such a policy might 
increase the employment outcomes of some disadvantaged groups, it also implies a transfer of 
income from savers to borrowers and a potentially unsustainable reallocation of resources across 
sectors. In addition, a lower-for-even-longer policy raises the risk of creating financial 
imbalances and could call into question our political independence. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 

MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And let me start by joining everyone else 
in praising the success of Fed Listens. As the member of the Committee especially charged with 
representing the heartless [laughter], I thought that the Fed Listens events were tremendously 
effective, both as a forum for hearing the perspectives of a wide range of the public and a venue 
for increasing our own transparency and public engagement. I agree with President Bullard, 
President Kaplan, and lots of others that I think that athletic Fed Listens stance is something that 
we need to make a continuous process and a continuous message. 
I also found very interesting the staff memo on distributional considerations for monetary 
policy. The memo makes a number of important points in particular that recessions tend to have 
the greatest negative effects on those who are least able to afford it. By smoothing the cycle, 
sustaining growth, and mitigating recessions, effective monetary policy is arguably one of the 
most powerful tools for poverty reduction, although, again, as President Kaplan and others have 
noted, it can’t be the only tool, and it can’t be the primary tool. 
In the other direction, the memo also argues that if you have a greater share of hand-to-
mouth consumers, the larger the percentage grows of people without sufficient buffers—either 
savings or access to liquidity otherwise—to smooth through the hard times, that can make our 
job more difficult. Without savings to draw on, those consumers will pull back sharply on 
spending in a downturn, worsening the aggregate economy’s reaction to negative shocks. I 
found that argument persuasive, intuitive, correct. I did have a couple of questions. Reading the 
memo, it’s clear that it’s not the wealth distribution that complicates monetary policy, but the 
fraction of liquidity-constrained consumers. And is that going up or down? 
There may be analysis behind it that either I didn’t pull from the memo or that wasn’t in 
the memo, but, nonetheless, supported it to justify this. But the memo did seem to elide 

increasing wealth inequality with an increasing number of hand-to-mouth consumers. It’s not 
clear that that has to be right as a logical matter, right? We know that the personal savings rate, 
at about 8 percent, is as high as it has been since the early 1990s. Since the crisis, consumers 
have been deleveraging. They’ve been improving their balance sheets. 
There are circumstances in which increasing inequality can be accompanied by an 
upward shift in income and, therefore, liquidity across the spectrum. You don’t have to have a 
view about causation there, and I don’t, in the current circumstances. That’s, obviously, a much 
more complex empirical and conceptual question than the ideological words connected with it 
would make it. But, nonetheless, it can happen. Against that backdrop, do we think that the 
fraction of hand-to-mouth consumers is increasing or decreasing in light of increasing 
inequality? More directly, are the aggregate features identified in the memo getting better or 
worse, accepting the consequence of the fraction of hand-to-mouth consumers? 
Turning to the model simulation results, at the risk of sounding like a broken record, I am 
uncertain about how to interpret model simulations that don’t allow for the nonpolicy rate tools 
of monetary policy—quantitative easing, forward guidance—that we used in the previous 
recession that everyone expects we would use again if needed. To reiterate a point I’ve made 
previously: I am worried that an excessive focus on the effective lower bound as a rationale for 
changes in our framework could be self-defeating. Rather than cementing the importance of the 
ELB as a constraint on policy, I think we should work to weaken the constraint by highlighting 
the other policy tools that are available to us as part of our communication. 
Finally, the model results are very interesting in revealing how a higher fraction of 
liquidity-constrained consumers can worsen aggregate economic outcomes. But, as President 
Barkin noted, it also appears that the simulations with alternative makeup strategies didn’t lead 

to substantially different economic outcomes either in simulations with a lower fraction of 
liquidity-constrained consumers or, for that matter, in simulations that were conducted under the 
assumption of the Taylor rule. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think the public review of our framework is a 
matter of good central bank governance. Over the years, the Fed has periodically reviewed its 
policy framework. But this is the first review that’s been open to the public, with a conference at 
the Chicago Fed and the various other Fed Listens events. 
Engaging with the public has the potential to increase the credibility of the institution and 
build trust with our various constituents. The public events have given us a way to show that we 
care not only about how monetary policy choices affect financial markets, but also how they 
affect large and small businesses, workers, consumers, and communities across income and 
wealth spectrums. But building trust also means avoiding overpromising and underdelivering. 
Monetary policy can make very important contributions to the health of the economy, but it is 
also a blunt tool, and we need to be careful to avoid suggesting that it can deliver things it’s not 
capable of doing. 
Now, the economics profession has been developing models to better understand how 
monetary policy transmits to various segments of the population along a number of dimensions, 
including whether they are credit or liquidity constrained, their income, their wealth, and whether 
they’re owners of firms or salary workers. It’s always been understood that monetary policy has 
differential effects on savers and borrowers, but these new models are permitting a more granular 
understanding of the differential effects. The fact that a portion of the population is liquidity 

constrained means their spending is less sensitive to changes in interest rates—a factor that limits 
the effects of monetary policy. 
Now, how monetary policy should appropriately take these considerations into account 
deserves further study. Would more aggressive monetary policy actions alleviate these liquidity 
constraints? Or would it, instead, engender higher financial stability risks that would undermine 
any benefits? The strength of the expectations mechanism in a heterogeneous agent model 
depends on the calibration. In the Board staff’s model, expectations play a larger role than in the 
standard representative-agent models. But in other models in the literature, the effects of 
expectations are damped, relative to the standard model. In the Board staff’s model, given the 
strong expectations mechanism, would the credibility and communications issues implicit in 
makeup strategies make these strategies less appealing? 
The staff’s memo concentrates on symmetric monetary policy strategies, but would 
asymmetric policy strategies, such as reacting more strongly when inflation is below 2 percent 
than when it’s above 2 percent, be even more beneficial in offsetting the asymmetry induced by 
the ELB, given that liquidity and credit constraints induce additional sources of asymmetry? All 
of these are important questions to continue to explore using these models. But, at this point, the 
research is still in an early stage, and it’s not ready to be used to guide actual policymaking. 
The work does underscore something we already know: that monetary policy can have a 
positive effect on vulnerable populations by helping cushion against recessions, which have a 
differentially more negative effect on these calculations. It also suggests that policies other than 
monetary policy can help alleviate liquidity and credit constraints, and that can make monetary 
policy more effective. The research also underscores the importance of the Fed’s community 
development efforts. The System’s community development function does its own analysis, but 

it also plays an important role as convener and catalyst of the appropriate bodies. It can 
implement policy and programs to address the challenges facing low- and moderate-income 
communities and individuals. 
Now, under my tenure as chair of the Conference of Presidents’ Committee on Research, 
Public Information, and Community Affairs, I think the System has made important strides in 
more effectively communicating its important community development efforts to the public. 
Now, of course, there is always more to do, and I expect the system will continue to improve on 
this front. And this work will help reinforce any improvements that we make to our monetary 
policy communications. 
The Cleveland Fed’s Fed Listens event was held at our community development policy 
summit in Cincinnati. One of the main themes that came out of this discussion, as well as most 
of the other sessions held in lower-income communities, was the importance of jobs. The overall 
strength of the labor market has helped bring jobs to these communities, but many people are 
concerned that these jobs will be the first to go in a downturn. And they continue to face 
significant structural barriers to finding stable work. These barriers include affordable access to 
training, reliable transportation, and quality health care and daycare, all of which are outside the 
realm of monetary policy to deliver. Monetary policy does have an important role to play in 
helping ensure the overall economy remains healthy, but to have a first-order effect on the 
structural barriers to work that people in these vulnerable populations face, fiscal policy actions 
are needed. 
People at our Fed Listens event in Cincinnati were not concerned with inflation. In fact, 
some were skeptical of the Fed’s view that inflation was too low, because, in their experience, 
it’s costing more, not less, to get by. This seemed to be a general theme at the various Fed 

Listens events. This lack of concern about inflation partially reflects the success the Fed has had 
in achieving price stability. And I guess this is honoring Paul Volcker here. If inflation were to 
get out of hand again, as it did in the 1970s and ’80s, it would become a major concern again for 
everyone. Now, from an individual’s perspective, low inflation is not a problem. Wages just 
tend to be sticky. So while higher inflation poses a burden, lower inflation is viewed as good. 
But inflation running below our goal does pose a problem for the macroeconomy and for 
monetary policymakers, as it constrains our main policy tool. 
We’ve got to explain to the broader public why low inflation is a problem. We might 
explain that when inflation runs persistently below our goal, it constrains monetary policy’s 
ability to stabilize the economy. The mechanics of why that’s the case and the strategy of how 
we achieve the inflation goal are complex and likely not that relevant to the broader public. 
Instead, they need to view the Fed as a trustworthy steward, focusing on achieving price stability 
and stable employment, thereby keeping the economy healthy and giving them opportunities for 
productive employment. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with many around the table about the 
benefits of the tight labor market that were highlighted in the Fed Listens events. I mean, it 
wasn’t surprising to me—obviously, I’ve had this view for a while. What I’m interested in is, 
why were the Fed Listens events so effective in getting the Committee to understand this? You 
know, we have 12 community development departments. I bet these conclusions weren’t 
surprising to them, and yet their perspectives weren’t making it into the Committee. And so I’m 
trying to think about, in going forward, how do we create a structure that is fresh, like the Fed 
Listens events? 

Why were they effective? They were effective because they were new, because we 
didn’t know what to expect. We went in with an open mind, and then we learned all of these 
things. We all have advisory councils and whatnot, but they become very structured and very 
routinized, and so I think the Fed Listens events were partially effective because they were new 
and they were unstructured and we didn’t know what to expect. And so I’m just brainstorming 
with my staff on what we could do so that we get the benefit of this type of insight on an ongoing 
basis, and we don’t lose it and let it become stale. But I’m really glad we did it. So hats off to 
everyone who was involved in organizing it. 
Now, question two, explaining low inflation and why we care—with all due respect, I 
didn’t like any of your answers. [Laughter] I didn’t think those were going to be persuasive. 
My explanation is, maximum employment is a labor market consistent with 2 percent inflation. 
If inflation is low, that means the labor market is not as strong as we would like it to be. Why do 
we want inflation to go up? We want a stronger labor market so more Americans have jobs, 
have better jobs, and have higher wages. Just go right back to the labor market. I’m sure the 
economists in the room will say, “Hey, you’re oversimplifying the connections.” That’s fine. 
The people who are asking us these questions are not looking for highly technical, academic 
answers. What does it mean for them? We want a stronger labor market. And if inflation is 
running low, the labor market is not as strong as it could be. 
Question number three—I’ve said this before, that we are operating in a free-lunch zone 
of monetary policy between the size of our dual mandate where there is no tradeoff. I think that 
the memos were very instructive about the benefits of running a tighter labor market. I think the 
challenge comes in when those two goals are in tension. Then I think we need to do more work 

to figure out how to trade off. But when we’re in the free-lunch zone, we should be letting the 
labor market tighten as much as possible. 
You know, in the HANK versus RANK memo, I wrote “Wow” when I read it, because, 
to me, it takes 106 years of Federal Reserve convention and turns it on its head. The 
conventional wisdom is that distributional considerations are just not a domain of monetary 
policy. Now, all of a sudden, here comes this memo, and it’s like, wow, actually, it’s central to 
monetary policy, and it’s really important. So as I think about why it’s so important, obviously, 
I’ve been opposed to the rate increases since I’ve been at the Fed, because I said inflation seemed 
low, and it seemed like there was still slack in the labor market. Why were we raising rates? We 
are worried that inflation was around the corner. We wanted to get out ahead of it. 
But underlying that was the idea that raising rates was costless. We could raise rates and 
it doesn’t slow anything down, it doesn’t hurt anybody, and we’ll take out insurance in case we 
get surprised about inflation. Well, these models show that it’s not at all costless. It’s actually 
very costly to the people at the bottom of the income distribution, the people who are marginally 
attached to the labor force. And so I applaud the staff for writing that memo. I hope we do a lot 
more work in understanding it, because I think a really important consideration is that raising 
rates ahead of inflation is not costless, and the cost is borne by those who can least afford it. 
Last two points—several people have brought up inequality, fiscal policy versus 
monetary policy. Charlie, I think you made a comment about—was it a program to help ex-cons 
get back into the labor force? My view on this has really evolved over the past few years. I now 
think that monetary policy has a role to play to create a context in which fiscal policy can be 
effective. If you look at worker retraining programs and various targeted fiscal programs, they 
are very hard to scale. They are very hard—you actually measure the results, you know, 

question whether they are effective. But if monetary policy can deliver a tight labor market, all 
of these other fiscal policy programs have a much better shot at being effective. And I thought 
your anecdote was a great example of that. 
And then, the last thing—Raphael raised a point about people pushing back on the Fed 
for wealth inequality. You know, there’s income inequality, and there’s wealth inequality. I 
push back on people saying, “Well, we’re just exacerbating wealth inequality,” because for the 
vast majority of Americans, their most valuable asset is their job. They don’t own stocks. They 
don’t own a house. They have a job. And if you capitalize their income, and we get wages to 
grow, that actually makes them wealthier, and that’s our big contribution to reducing income 
inequality. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. As I’ve been thinking about Paul 
Volcker’s passing, I can’t help but think of Isaac Newton’s phrase of “standing on the shoulders 
of giants.” I think we all owe an enormous debt of gratitude to Paul Volcker, and we all stand on 
his shoulders as we do our work. In terms of the staff memos and the work on the Fed Listens, I, 
like everybody, really appreciate all of the work that’s gone on. I think this is really helpful and 
successful. 
I’m going to start with the model stuff, the HANK versus RANK. I thought the staff 
memo and the briefing were really very good at incorporating heterogeneous agents and 
inequality in our models. I think that’s an advance. I agree with President Bullard and others, 
and President Mester made this point as well, that this is an area of active research and 
development. I’m never sure whether our macro models are ever mature, but it’s an aspirational 
goal, and I think it adds useful insights into our thinking about the interaction of monetary policy 

and the economy. And, of course, it reinforces the importance of the monetary policy strategy 
that can effectively mitigate the effects of the ELB in pursuit of our dual-mandate goals. 
I’d like to take this opportunity to actually make a broader point about how we use 
models and discuss models. It’s not just about heterogeneous-agent models or dynamic 
stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) models or the FRB/US model, but, you know, the reality 
is, given the uncertainties inherent in describing a complex and changing economic environment, 
there is not going to be any single model that we can rely on for all questions and all 
circumstances. We shouldn’t even be thinking about it that way. 
That doesn’t mean we should despair for a lack of a perfect model and revert to gut 
intuition. Instead, we should broaden the set of models we use, fitting the model to the question 
and the issue at hand in setting the economy and setting monetary policy strategy and tactics. I 
always use the phrase, “When it comes to economic models, the more the merrier.” This allows 
us to compare and contrast results and understand to what extent certain results were sensitive to 
particular assumptions and also look for a robust understanding of economic issues and thinking 
about monetary policy strategy and tactics. 
There’s been a lot of work over decades here at the Board in taking that approach, and I 
think that the more we can look at a wide range of models, the better we are. I applaud the 
Board staff and Stacey’s leadership here to promote this actively, bringing more models and 
comparison and contrasting results across different frameworks to help us think about things. I 
know there is a lot of work done in the Federal Reserve Banks and elsewhere that we can add to 
the mix, so, again, I encourage further development along those lines. 
Regarding Fed Listens, I agree with everybody that these were highly informative and 
successful. I think it’s both true that we didn’t hear things that we didn’t know or shouldn’t have 

known, but we did hear them very specifically on our dual-mandate goals and specifically about 
how to think about what success looks like for the Fed. And I think that framing and the public 
aspect of it were important. 
Now, of course, the Reserve Banks have long had regular conversations about labor 
markets, inflation, and monetary policy with our boards of directors and with our advisory 
groups. The Fed Listens events really built upon this tradition and extended and broadened our 
conversations in a very useful way, and especially about, what does it mean—what does 
maximum employment mean? What does price stability mean? One lesson I take away from 
this is that I want to make sure that this conversation is an ongoing feature of our future board 
meetings and our future advisory group meetings so that we don’t lose that dialogue as we move 
forward. 
Although I generally agree with the summary of the “takeaways,” I am going to urge 
caution about not overinterpreting comments that suggested a lack of concern about inflation. 
First, there is no question that we heard that about inflation today. Absolutely, I heard that in our 
meetings as well. But if we did have a return to high inflation, that would be a major concern for 
low- and moderate-income families who are on fixed incomes or whose wages wouldn’t keep up 
with the rise in inflation—getting back to President Evans’s point about surprise inflation is 
really what we’re talking about. So we shouldn’t lose track of that. I don’t think we will. That’s 
my first word of caution. 
Second—and this is along the lines of a whole long list: Presidents Daly, Evans, 
Rosengren, Mester, and many others—comments that inflation moderately below 2 percent 
would not be a major worry are completely understandable for a family or a business that’s going 
about their lives. They are appropriately focused on their own decisions and their own 

circumstances. But let’s not lose sight of the case that having inflation anchored at 2 percent 
rather than a lower number reflects, in large part, concerns about the negative macroeconomic 
effects of too-low inflation, associated with downward nominal wage rigidity, the lower bound, 
and risks of deflation. As a concrete example, which has already been mentioned a number of 
times: If inflation expectations become anchored well below 2 percent, that gives us less policy 
space to respond to an economic downturn, and this is to the detriment of the entire economy. 
So this is a fundamental distinction between the micro and the macro, the partial 
equilibrium and the general equilibrium. It underscores, at the end of the day, the point that we 
can’t “crowdsource” our strategy—but, instead, must take a decidedly macroeconomic 
perspective in which the focus is on: How do we best achieve, with the tools that we have, our 
dual-mandate goals as we consider improvements to our policy framework? Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Thanks, everyone, for your comments. I have a few of 
my own. 
Evidence has long shown that the cost of recessions fall disproportionately on the more 
disadvantaged. That unfortunate fact underscores the benefits of long, sustainable expansions in 
delivering on our dual-mandate goals. We’re seeing the remarkable effects of such an 
expansion. Employment gains in the past few years have been broad based across all racial and 
ethnic groups in levels of educational attainment as well as among people with disabilities. 
Incomes for low- and middle-income households have risen more rapidly than average as wage 
growth has picked up most for the lower-paying jobs. 
But, as participants in our Fed Listens events have emphasized, there is still plenty of 
room to build on these gains. The message at these events has been a consistent one: Tight labor 
markets are spreading benefits to communities to a degree that has not been felt for a long time. 

Employers are working creatively to structure jobs so that employees can keep working 
effectively while coping with the demands of life beyond the workplace. Companies, 
communities, and schools are working together to find and train productive employees. 
Apprenticeships and on-the-job training are having positive effects on workers’ careers. So 
50-year lows in unemployment come around only every 50 years or so. You heard it here. 
[Laughter] 
We simply lack sufficient data to reliably estimate the persistence of the positive effects 
we are clearly seeing, and I think we should take seriously what we are seeing in the 
participation and the other data and what we have been hearing at the Fed Listens events. In my 
view, there is every chance that these positive effects will be sustained, and that will be partly a 
function of our policy. 
Fed Listens has been a home run in so many ways. Elected officials, journalists, and 
other members of the public think it’s just great that we’re listening carefully to a broad spectrum 
of people across American life. Of course, we’ve always done that, and it’s frustrating to hear a 
small minority saying, “Well, it’s about time.” The Reserve Banks have always had deep and 
abiding connections with their communities. Here at the Board, we’ve also long met with 
community and labor leaders, small business owners, community banks, and others. Fed Listens 
has been a public and highly successful extension and coordination of our engagement with the 
public and has focused attention on our broader context. So I want to thank everyone, 
particularly Ellen for her work, for making this so. 
The memo on distributional considerations for monetary policy examines how monetary 
policy affects traditionally disadvantaged groups. The memo shows how the share of households 
with little or no financial buffer can play a role in the way monetary policy affects the real 

economy and, hence, our achievement of the dual mandate. Households with small financial 
buffers because of a lack of either wealth or access to credit are affected more by shocks. An 
economy with more such households is, therefore, also more affected by shocks and thus by 
policy. 
This point is nicely illustrated by the HANK and RANK simulations in the memo. The 
HANK model is calibrated as a realistic distribution of low buffered households. The 
simulations show that ELB episodes can be worse when this aspect of realism is modeled and 
that the benefits of makeup strategies could be larger. Research into these issues illustrates how 
a modest reduction in the severity of the ELB events, viewed by the standpoint of aggregates or 
the typical consumer, could entail gains for those of low- or moderate-income and wealth. We 
cannot precisely measure these things, but we should take seriously, I think, the general thrust of 
the result that we consider what framework is appropriate in light of the elevated ELB risk. 
One of the questions posed is, how should we take this research and other similar 
research into account for policy? And I will admit, that’s a question that I think we’ve all been 
thinking about. This is a very thought-provoking memo. I’m uncertain about the answer. 
Nonetheless, I do think that, in principle, a better model of the economy will allow us to make 
better policy. It will not give us tools that we don’t have to address inequality more broadly. 
More generally, this work and other assessments that we do on disparate economic effects can 
inform our evolving understanding of maximum employment. 
I would echo a couple of other comments around the table—that we need to be careful 
how we talk about this. Pursuing maximum employment and 2 percent inflation in a robust way 
could well benefit low- and moderate-income communities. As some noted, this is a different 
thing than inequality per se. If you asked for a briefing on the most recent literature on 

inequality, which I happened to do last week, what you get is a discussion of income and wealth 
distribution, particularly at the high end and the median end. This is a different but closely 
related thing, and I think if we do monetary policy successfully, we can have an effect on the 
number of households that are constrained by having longer, more stable expansions. I don’t 
think we should think of ourselves as working directly on inequality, wealth, or income 
inequality. I think that’s a little bit of a stretch for our mandate. 
Regarding the question on communications, much of the public remains bewildered as to 
why we care that inflation has been running somewhat below 2 percent. People are concerned 
about the rising costs of medical care, housing, and college, but no one seems to be complaining 
about overall inflation running below 2 percent. This will clearly be a challenge, and I have tried 
to explain it in my public remarks. I will take President Kashkari’s thoughts onboard in this 
respect. 
I would close, though, by saying that the fact that this will be extremely difficult I don’t 
think it should be seen as a reason to be less determined in our pursuit of 2 percent inflation. 
And I would echo what the Vice Chair said, which is, if we fail to achieve 2 percent inflation 
either on the upside or the downside, people will come to understand that relatively quickly in 
coming years. 
So, with that, thank you for your comments, and we will now take a one-hour lunch 
break, concluding at 1:00 p.m. Thanks very much. 
CHAIR POWELL. The next item is the Desk briefing. Lorie, would you like to start 
us out? 
MS. LOGAN.
2 Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be referring to the handout titled 
“Material for Briefing on Financial Developments and Open Market Operations.” 
Since your previous meeting, U.S. and global economic data and the evolving outlook 
 
2 The materials used by Ms. Logan are appended to this transcript (appendix 2). 

for trade policy have continued to be the key drivers of financial markets. To begin, 
I’ll briefly summarize asset price developments over the period, note some key 
watch-points ahead, and assess near-term policy expectations. I’ll then spend most of 
my time on money markets and policy implementation. 
As shown in panel 1, major U.S. asset prices are little changed, on net, since the 
previous meeting. Consistent with a perceived stabilization in the U.S. and global 
economies, Treasury yields increased slightly and forward measures of inflation 
compensation widened modestly. The S&P 500 index increased 4 percent, driven by 
the better data as well as perceptions that the FOMC is unlikely to raise rates in the 
near future. Corporate bond and high-yield spreads narrowed slightly. 
With regard to trade, the outlook for U.S.–China relations remains the biggest 
near-term focus, particularly whether additional tariffs scheduled to take effect on 
December 15 will be canceled or postponed. As shown in the yellow and green areas 
of panel 2, a large and increasing majority of Desk survey respondents think the most 
likely near-term outcome for the trade negotiations is that the additional tariffs on 
Chinese imports will be avoided. However, due to the timing of the survey, these 
results do not incorporate recent developments, which may have changed perceptions 
slightly. In addition to the economic significance of additional tariffs on Chinese 
goods, many contacts view the decision regarding the December 15 tariffs as 
providing an important signal about the medium-term outlook for U.S.–China 
relations. 
One new facet of the trade conflict this period was its potential linkage to political 
tensions in Hong Kong, with market participants noting increased risk that these two 
issues will become directly linked. The unrest has negatively affected Hong Kong 
equity markets, but broader spillovers have been limited. 
Another important watch-point is the U.K. parliamentary election later this week, 
in which the Conservative Party is expected to win a clear majority and thus have the 
votes necessary to proceed with Brexit by the January 31 deadline. Market 
participants appear to be responding positively to the prospect of reduced uncertainty 
about the process, with the British pound trading at recent highs. 
With some potentially market-moving events on the horizon, seasonally low 
levels of liquidity in late December could amplify market moves, as we saw last year. 
Certain measures of liquidity in the U.S. Treasury market have been slow to recover 
from the August volatility and are below where we’d typically expect them to be in 
the run-up to year-end, as shown by the red line in panel 3. However, contacts do not 
appear to be too concerned about broader liquidity conditions going into year-end. 
Regarding market expectations for this meeting, as summarized in panel 4, the 
Desk’s surveys point to expectations of no change to the target range. Respondents, 
on average, assign a 90 percent probability to this outcome, consistent with market 
pricing, and indicated that they anticipate little significant change to the FOMC 
statement. With respect to the SEP, the median respondent expects the median dots 

for the federal funds rate for 2019 to 2022 to shift lower by 25 basis points but for the 
longer-run dot to remain unchanged. 
Consistent with investors’ views that the FOMC’s policy stance is likely to be 
maintained barring a significant change in the outlook, survey disagreement around 
the most likely level of the target range following the next two meetings declined, 
shown as the dark blue line in panel 5. Market commentary following the October 
FOMC linked the convergence in near-term forecasts in part to the Committee’s 
October communications. Survey uncertainty about the near-term outlook also 
declined, and implied volatility on short-tenor interest rates—a common market-
based measure of uncertainty shown in the light blue line—fell back to levels seen 
before the escalation in trade tensions last spring. 
Further ahead, median forecasts for the modal rate path point to the target range 
remaining at its current level at the end of 2020. But the perceived distribution of 
outcomes is skewed notably to the downside, as reflected in the average probability 
distribution for the change in the target range through next year, shown in panel 6. 
Unsurprisingly, when asked about scenarios that would lead to rate cuts next year, 
most respondents pointed to slow growth, continued trade uncertainty, or low 
inflation. 
My remaining exhibits focus on money markets and policy implementation. 
Starting on your second exhibit, and as outlined in panel 7, I’ll cover three topics: 
first, an update on the implementation of the FOMC’s strategy to ensure ample 
reserves; second, our approach to managing risks to policy implementation around 
year-end; and, third, a few key considerations regarding implementation as we move 
into 2020. 
First, the implementation of the Committee’s strategy to maintain ample reserves 
at or above early September levels has been going well. Bill purchases, which 
continue at a pace of $60 billion per month, are proceeding smoothly. By the end of 
December, we will have purchased approximately $160 billion in Treasury bills. The 
operations have been well covered, with offers at least two to three times our intended 
purchase amounts and at attractive rates, and with limited discernible effect on market 
functioning. As shown in panel 8, spreads of bill rates over comparable overnight 
index swap rates narrowed a bit after the purchase announcement, about as we 
expected, and have remained relatively stable even as purchases have accumulated. 
Meanwhile, repo operations are maintaining reserve levels at early September 
levels as bill purchases build underlying reserve balances over time. As shown by the 
sum of the red and gray bars in panel 9, we’ve had roughly $215 billion in repo 
outstanding per day—about $140 billion in term and $75 billion overnight. 
Notably, as reserve levels have risen from these purchases of T-bills and the 
repos, the distribution of reserves across bank types is now comparable to where it 
was in early September. In addition, the number of banks having reserves below their 

reported least-comfortable level of reserves has fallen, as shown in the dark blue line 
in panel 10. 
Now, against this backdrop, overnight money market rates have been printing 
closer to IOER. As shown in panel 11, the effective federal funds rate was near 
interest on excess reserves over the period, within but toward the bottom of the 
FOMC’s target range. 
As shown by the narrowing in the blue bars in panel 12 on your third exhibit, the 
intraday dispersion of money market rates has also been lower than it was when 
reserves were at similar levels leading up to September. In addition to adding 
reserves, it may be that the repo operations are also reducing repo rates directly. This 
may also be contributing to softer and less disperse overnight and term rates across 
money markets. 
On panel 13, I’ll turn to the second key topic: year-end dynamics and our 
approach to managing related risks. Market participants are expecting some 
temporary pressures in money markets around year-end. In addition to normal year-
end balance sheet management, market participants have noted that several G-SIBs 
are close to higher surcharge thresholds, which could further reduce their incentives 
to intermediate across markets. We expect this to lead to temporary upward pressure 
on interdealer repo rates, as is typical around year-end, though the likely effect on 
broader repo and money markets is less clear. As shown in the table, some indicators, 
such as overnight interdealer repo rates spanning year-end and the expected year-end 
effective federal funds rate implied by OIS, both displayed in red, are elevated 
compared with the levels seen before last year-end. Other indicators, displayed in 
green, are not. 
Now, given the broad attention that these rates in red have garnered in the press 
and in market commentary, we see some market participants funding earlier than they 
did ahead of previous year-ends. In particular, as shown in panel 14, triparty repo 
financing over year-end is well ahead of where it was last year. However, we have 
limited insight into funding preparations beyond banks and primary dealers. Our 
goal, of course, is not to eliminate typical year-end pressures in repo markets, but 
rather to mitigate the spillover to the federal funds market and support orderly market 
functioning. Our operational strategy in achieving this has been to ensure that 
reserves are amply supplied and that repo operations provide predictable funding 
leading up to and over the year-end date. The Desk has conducted three longer-term 
repo operations spanning year-end for $25 billion, each of which was oversubscribed. 
This suggests strong demand for year-end financing and has contributed to the earlier 
funding shown in the red dotted line. 
In our upcoming repo calendar to be released Thursday, we plan to include one 
more term operation to be conducted in the coming days, bringing total longer-term 
repo supplied over year-end to $100 billion. We also plan to increase the amount of 
overnight repo offered on the year-end date and stand ready to make further 
adjustments, if necessary. 

While the increase in reserve balances and the availability of repo funding should 
help reduce pressure on federal funds and other unsecured money markets, the risk 
that higher repo rates could temporarily pass through to the federal funds rate 
remains. One indication based on the Desk survey, which is shown in panel 15, 
suggests that market participants are expecting some degree of pass-through between 
repo and federal funds rates. As shown in the top half of the panel, the median of 
survey respondents’ expectations suggests the effective federal funds rate could 
increase 4 basis points at year-end, remaining well within the target range, while 
triparty repo rates, shown in the bottom half of the panel, may increase roughly 40 
basis points. Importantly, however, these are market participants’ point estimates and 
don’t capture the perceived distribution of risks related to these rates over year-end. 
Ahead of year-end, we are also closely watching the upcoming midmonth tax 
payment and Treasury settlement date. Similar settlement and tax flows and 
associated reserve declines were contributing factors to the pressure in mid-
September. Although we anticipate some pressure, conditions this month should be 
more stable, reflecting the higher level of reserve balances and the repo operations we 
now have in place. Nonetheless, developments around mid-December may provide 
some indication of conditions to expect through year-end. 
Let me turn now to my third main topic: operational considerations around policy 
implementation as we look at the year ahead. To set the table for these operational 
considerations, panel 16 shows our current reserve forecast into the second quarter of 
2020, with the blue shaded area highlighting the reserves supplied by reserve 
management purchases of Treasury bills. Currently, our forecast shows that with the 
ongoing pace of purchases and the repo operations, reserves will be maintained just 
above the early September levels throughout the April tax season. Of course, 
forecasts at this horizon are subject to considerable uncertainty, and we expect to 
continue to adjust the outlook. 
As we look into 2020, we are currently considering two operational adjustments, 
summarized in panel 17 of your final exhibit. First, bill purchases are expected to 
bring the underlying level of reserves above $1.5 trillion by late March. Although the 
purchases are currently going well, there is a risk that it could become difficult for us 
to transact in bills at some point, particularly given the expected decline in privately 
held Treasury bills driven by a seasonal decline in issuance and SOMA’s growing 
share of bill holdings, shown in panel 18. 
If we see tangible signs that bill purchases are encountering difficulties or starting 
to negatively affect bill market liquidity, we would recommend adding short coupon 
Treasuries to the reserve management purchase mix. There is currently a large stock 
of short coupon securities, and we think the market could absorb sizable purchases. 
As with bills, purchases of these short-dated instruments should not meaningfully 
affect broader financial conditions. 
There’s a small chance this scenario could materialize between now and the end 
of January and call for a relatively quick response, and as a result it may be necessary 

to alter the purchase allocation before your next meeting. If this were to occur, we 
would consult with the Chair and inform the Committee before making any changes 
to our plans and seek a change in the directive at the January meeting. 
Second, as bill purchases continue to build reserves, repo operations will become 
less central. As discussed in the memo on transitioning away from active repo 
operations circulated ahead of the meeting, the Desk intends to transition away from 
active repo operations by gradually changing operational parameters and closely 
monitoring market conditions. We expect to reduce and consolidate term operations 
and to raise the minimum bid rate for repo operations so that they become less 
attractive. However, we would expect to continue some overnight offerings at least 
through April, when tax payments will sharply reduce reserve levels. 
We will publish a calendar of repo operations for mid-January through mid-
February that starts to reflect these gradual changes to the operation parameters along 
these lines, and the minutes to this meeting, which will be published in early January, 
could also communicate our intentions. The Committee’s directive to the Desk could 
then be adjusted as appropriate at the January meeting to reflect more specific plans 
beyond January; recall that the directive currently instructs the Desk to conduct repo 
operations at least through January. Our sense is that this type of gradual reduction is 
generally in line with market expectations. As shown by the blue dots in panel 19, 
the median respondent to the Desk’s survey expects overnight repos to be offered at 
or above $100 billion through January 2020 and to taper thereafter. 
Similarly, as shown by the blue dots in panel 20, the median respondent expects 
term repos to be offered at around $200 billion in December, falling to $100 billion 
by March and then tapering further. As you can see, these expectations become more 
disperse in the later months and include some expectations for no term operations. 
The Desk’s approach to transitioning from active repo operations is intended only 
to guide near-term planning while we continue to gain experience operating in an 
ample-reserves regime, and the staff will seek additional guidance at a later stage on 
the longer-term approach. 
In addition to these operational considerations related to bill purchases and repo 
operations, as reserves become more ample and rates are maintained near the IOER 
rate, it may become appropriate at some point to contemplate an upward adjustment 
to the IOER rate and the overnight RRP offering rate, reversing the decreases made 
amid the volatility in September. As discussed earlier, the effective federal funds rate 
has been trading close to the IOER rate in recent weeks, 5 basis points above the 
bottom of the target range. Adjusting the administered rates upwards at some point 
would bring the IOER rate closer to the middle of the target range and return the 
overnight RRP rate to be in alignment with the bottom of the target range. 
As shown by the placement of the dark blue and red dashed marks relative to the 
shaded area representing the target range on the right side of panel 21, the median 
survey respondent sees no technical adjustment through March 2020 and expects the 

effective federal funds rate to “print” above IOER consistently through March 2020 
and in the longer run, which is not shown. Nevertheless, market analysts have 
suggested that an adjustment may be considered by the FOMC if the effective federal 
funds rate continues to “print” at or below current levels. 
I’ll conclude with two brief operational updates. First, as discussed at the October 
meeting, the remuneration rate on the foreign repo pool will be reduced to align with 
the overnight RRP rate; this change has now been communicated to our customers 
and will take effect on December 16. Along with other customer developments 
related to the foreign repo pool, this is likely to reduce activity in the pool and 
correspondingly increase reserves relative to our forecast. 
Second, given the current importance of repo operations, we plan to conduct a 
new small-value exercise in coming days that will test repo operations using backup 
processes without our proprietary auction system. This test is listed in the appendix, 
along with a summary of additional upcoming small-value exercises. Thank you, Mr. 
Chair. That concludes my prepared remarks. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Are there any questions for Lorie or Patricia? President 
Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. I’d like to follow up on your comment on the global systemically 
important bank (G-SIB) surcharge thresholds. There’s been some market commentary about 
how many of the large banks are close enough to their threshold that they would be unwilling to 
roll broker-dealer portfolios over the New Year. So do we have a good sense of which 
institutions they are, whether they’re institutions that are particularly important for financing 
broker-dealers and hedge funds? And maybe just a little bit of commentary on, the federal funds 
rate doesn’t move, but people can’t finance other assets—how comfortable we are with that kind 
of outcome over year-end. So do you think that’s a likely concern that—some of the 
commentary I’ve highlighted, or are you not as worried about that? 
MS. LOGAN. On the G-SIB surcharge, I think there are four institutions that have 
largely been in focus for market participants. And of those four institutions, somewhat 
surprisingly, at least two of them are active in our repo operations, and they’re active in the 
operations relative to what they indicated to us about a month ago of what they plan to do 

because of their G-SIB surcharge constraints. In other words, it’s difficult to know what to take 
from the commentary because their actual behavior ends up deviating a bit from what we hear 
from them. 
My understanding is that those four institutions have communicated, though, very early 
and directly with their customers about what to expect in terms of the funding over year-end, and 
that’s given customers time to make adjustments. So I think that preplanning has taken place, 
which should support conditions as we move through year-end. But, overall, I’ve found that it’s 
hard to know what to make from the comments from market participants on the G-SIB 
surcharge, because the actual trading activity hasn’t always been consistent with the comments. 
In terms of year-end and the intermediation, my sense is, from the banks, in terms of 
managing their own levels of reserves, that they’ve been doing a fair amount of prefunding, and 
those banks that are close to their lowest comfortable level of reserves (LCLoRs) have taken 
steps to have funding through the year-end. And there has been a lot of preplanning, and you see 
that in commercial paper (CP) issuance. A lot of that’s been funded ahead of time. 
On the dealer side, that’s more difficult to know about the intermediation in interdealer 
markets, and we are expecting the strains to most likely be in an interdealer part of the repo 
market, and that’s beyond where our repo operations occur. Your know, our repo operations 
affect the triparty rate, and we hope that that intermediation then takes place into the interdealer 
markets, but I think that’s where the strains would likely be, in that interdealer portion. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Just one follow-up. So has there been a growth in non-Treasury 
repo activity? And would we be concerned that hedge funds or organizations may or may not be 
as prepared as they should be for the end of the year? I mean, what would we do if a lot of those 
financing vehicles don’t work at the end of the year? I know we’re primarily focused on the 

Treasury market, but you can imagine after September the concern, if large hedge fund portfolios 
have trouble rolling over the year-end, that we’ll once again be in another cycle of hearing about 
concerns about liquidity. So are there other things that we could be doing proactively to avoid 
those kinds of outcomes? How real a risk is that, do you think? 
MS. LOGAN. Our sense is, looking back from September until now, the growth that we 
saw—we’ve been focused mostly on Treasury repo, and there’s been a growth in overnight 
financing by levered investors in Treasury repo. I haven’t seen as much of a focus in mortgage-
backed securities MBS or other collateral types. 
The planning that’s taking place from those firms is outside our direct visibility. They do 
rely, to a large extent, on overnight financing in the Delivery-versus-Payment (DVP) repo 
market, and that is more difficult for us to affect directly. So the operational approach we’re 
taking to that is to provide repos to the primary dealers so that it has two effects. First, it lowers 
their own financing costs and creates competition from their other cash funders. And, second, it 
encourages them to then pass on that repo financing to the other part of the market and to 
maintain intermediation. 
We are seeing some of them intermediate, so they’re not just keeping the funding for 
themselves. They are using that to fund some of those hedge funds and other players that are 
leveraged. But we don’t have a direct way of providing funding to those other type of accounts. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Lorie, you talked about, if bill purchases start to affect bill market 
liquidity. I’m just curious—what would that look like? Because when I think about a lack of 
liquidity, I think about a lack of buyers. This would be the opposite—it would too many buyers. 
So what would you see? 

MS. LOGAN. I think we’d be looking at the rates on bills relative to other money market 
instruments, we’d be looking at liquidity metrics, and, more importantly, we’d be looking at fails 
in the market. So if we started to see security fails, and we knew there’s a lot of demand for 
those and the market’s not clearing with those fails, then we would know that there were market-
functioning indicators. 
We’re also focused on our auction performance. I think in that sort of scenario, the 
primary dealers would have less inventory, and then we’d be seeing less coverage in the 
auctions. Right now the coverage is very healthy, and the prices that we’re receiving are quite 
attractive, which makes me think they have sufficient inventory to be passing through to us. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. I’m going to ask a little bit of a strategic question. I think you and your 
team have done a great job getting us to this point and getting ready for year-end. I’m just 
wondering—if phase one of this strategy is more bills and these regular repo activities at the 
interest rate on excess reserves at the low end of the range, looking ahead after year-end, at a 
certain point in the year we’ll have bought substantially more bills, we’ll have a bigger balance 
sheet. My concern is, if you’re still facing frictional issues then, just because of bank behavior, 
G-SIB desire to do some of the other things that the banks want to do, we would have to continue 
with repo activities. 
Back to the issue of the standing repo facility: I’m wondering what your assessment 
would be if, instead, earlier in 2020, we shifted gears and went, with its pros and cons, to a 
standing repo facility with a rate 1 or 2 basis points above the top end of the range, which may 
not get used other than in spike situations. Would that allow us to maybe end the bill purchases 

sooner, depending on what you think we needed to get to ample or abundant reserves? And 
would it provide a more sustainable and less episodic approach to stabilizing the federal funds 
rate, as well as conditions in the repo market? 
MS. LOGAN. Our objective is, as we said, to purchase bills in order to have reserve 
levels above that early September level. And we think that will occur, according to our current 
forecast, around March. And, at that time, we’ll have started to bring the repos down. We will 
have started to consolidate and to shrink the repos. And in that experience, I think we’ll be 
seeing where money markets are trading relative to the IOER rate, and we’ll be looking at the 
distribution of reserves within the banking system, and we’ll have more updated information 
from the banks on their demand for reserves. 
At that point, I think it would provide the Committee with the base of information on 
which to think about whether the early-September level of reserves is sufficiently ample, as well 
as how money markets are responding to the decline in the repos. I think both of those pieces of 
information will help the Committee’s strategic discussion as it looks ahead and wants to choose 
the amount of insurance it wants to have in an ample-reserves regime, either with “more ample” 
reserves or ample reserves supported by a standing repo facility. So in this February and March 
timeframe, we’ll be able to come back with some more information to support your strategic 
discussions. 
MR. KAPLAN. Great, thanks. 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to come back to this issue 
of market liquidity in the Treasury bill (T-bill) market. As Lorie highlighted, right now things 

are going very well. I don’t want to lose track of that. We’re all asking good questions and 
thinking about hypotheticals, and that’s appropriate—obviously, a lot of planning on that. 
Specifically, here, again, we’re not seeing signs of that. As we go forward through this 
month and the next couple of months, there’s some small probability that we would start seeing 
illiquid conditions in the T-bill market. And I think, on the basis of our discussions on October 4 
and the decision on October 11, that shifting some of the T-bill purchases to short coupon 
securities would be totally consistent with how we agreed upon buying at the short end of the 
curve—clearly, it’s not quantitative easing (QE), it’s not Large Scale Asset Purchases 
(LSAPs)—and it would be consistent with us building up, on a permanent basis, the reserves to 
ample reserves. So right now that’s not the baseline, that’s not the expectation, but I do think, if 
it were to occur that we saw liquidity issues, I think that’s a natural place to go. 
Obviously, as Lorie said, we would communicate that to the Committee. Market 
commentary already has that in their frame, that if we were struggling to do the $60 billion a 
month, we have this ability to go to the short-coupon sector. And, as Lorie highlighted, there’s a 
lot of that out there. So I just think that’s good, prudent planning for a contingency. We hope 
we won’t need to do that, but I think it would be completely consistent with the approach that we 
agreed on back in October. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? [No response] Okay. If there are no further 
questions, we need a vote to ratify the domestic open market operations conducted since the 
October meeting. Do I have a motion to approve? 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. All those in favor. [Chorus of ayes] Thank you very much. Next 
we’ll turn to the review of the economic and financial situation. Glenn, would you like to start. 

MR. FOLLETTE.3 Sure. Thank you. I’ll be referring to the handout labeled 
“Material for Briefing on the Domestic Economic Situation.” Today I thought I’d 
begin with a quick review of the near-term outlook in light of the more upbeat data 
we’ve received since the November Tealbook. 
As shown in the top-left table, we now anticipate that GDP will expand at a 
1.9 percent rate over the second half of the year, a little higher than we forecast in 
October. Still, GDP slows noticeably from the first half, with much of the slowing 
coming from a step-down in government purchases, though PDFP, shown on line 4, 
also contributes to some of the deceleration. 
The panel to the right summarizes the two surprisingly strong employment reports 
we have received since the previous meeting. The black line shows that private 
payroll gains have averaged a whopping 200,000 over the past three months. The 
dashed line adjusts these data for our expectation for revisions the BLS will make to 
the post-benchmark period. As noted in a box in the Tealbook, the staff’s estimates 
derived from data from ADP, shown by the green line, indicate a much slower pace 
of payroll growth since the middle of the year. The pooled estimate, the blue line, 
which combines the BLS data with the ADP data, is our best guess of the underlying 
rate of growth of employment and stands at roughly 160,000. With the 
unemployment rate edging down in recent months, it is unlikely that payrolls are 
growing as slowly as indicated by ADP, but gains in the range of the pooled estimate 
seem quite plausible, and we expect a pace in that range in the first quarter. 
The bottom two panels display recent wage data that suggest that wage gains have 
flattened out this year, perhaps reflecting the slowdown in hiring. On the left-hand 
side are several measures of median year-over-year changes in wages for workers. 
The black line shows the Atlanta Fed Wage Growth Tracker, an estimate derived 
from the microdata collected for the household survey. Smoothing through the 
volatility, it appears that wages have accelerated as the labor market has tightened but 
may have flattened out over the past year. The blue dashed line shows the median 
wage increase for base pay derived from our ADP data, which has been fairly steady 
at around 3 percent, similar to anecdotal reports in the Beige Book. By contrast, the 
red line includes the effects of overtime, commissions, and bonuses that shows a 
more pronounced cyclical pickup, but it has also flattened out over the past year. 
On the right-hand side I display a set of more traditional measures: the ECI, the 
black line, and two measures of average hourly earnings—total, the solid blue line, 
and those of production and nonsupervisory workers, the dashed red line. Again, the 
ECI and total average hourly earnings display a flattening out this year, but wage 
growth for production workers has continued to move up. In addition, looking at the 
ECI by occupation as well as CPS-based measures, it appears that wage gains are 
stronger at the lower end of the income spectrum now. 
 
3 The materials used by Mr. Follette are appended to this transcript (appendix 3). 

Your next slide reviews the changes in the economic outlook since last year. In 
short, the economy slowed, but unemployment still fell and inflation faltered. The 
top-right chart reviews our projections of real GDP growth. As shown by the blue 
line, last December the staff expected growth to moderate from 3 percent in 2018 to 
2.4 percent this year and to slow further over the following two years. Our current 
assessment is shown by the black line. GDP growth now looks to be a little softer 
this year, increasing 2.2 percent. The median SEP values—the blue dots for 
December 2018 and the black dots for the current SEP forecast—have been quite 
similar to the staff’s. Business investment spending has been both the main source of 
slowdown in GDP growth this year as well as the source of the downward surprise for 
the staff. We now estimate that business fixed investment ground to a halt over the 
course of this year, as mounting uncertainty over trade policy and global growth 
appeared to have taken a toll. This is all the more surprising in view of the much 
more favorable financial conditions that have come to pass. 
Meanwhile, the bottom-left chart shows that unemployment has fallen to 
3.5 percent, as both the Tealbook and the SEP projection had anticipated last year. 
And as displayed in the bottom-right chart, after reaching 2 percent in late 2018, core 
inflation has disappointed this year—a topic I’ll return to later. Taken together, these 
developments led both the Board staff and the FOMC to reduce estimates of the 
natural rate of unemployment. Your next slide examines labor market developments 
a little more closely. 
The top-left panel provides a comparison of the Tealbook projection from a year 
ago with our current forecast, after taking in the November data. There are two 
noteworthy outcomes. First, as luck would have it, unemployment and payroll 
growth have been very close to our expectations. Second, labor force participation 
has improved more than we expected, and this has led us to revise up the underlying 
trend by 0.4 percentage point. 
As you know, participation is being affected by three important forces: aging, 
cyclical movements, and changes in longer-run trends. The chart to the right is 
designed to help focus on cyclical and trend movements by removing the effects of 
aging that obscure these changes. The black line displays that the standard aggregate 
participation rate has surprised us by moving up this year after moving roughly 
sideways since 2015. The effect of aging is documented by the red line, which shows 
the decline in overall participation since 1997 due solely to changing demographics—
that is, the decreasing share of the population in prime working ages. That downward 
pull from aging amounts to about ¼ percentage point per year currently. The blue 
line shows the participation rate after excluding this aging effect. This age-adjusted 
line shows that participation has been rising since 2015 about 0.4 percentage point per 
year. 
A continuing challenge for analysts has been to figure out how much of the 
change in participation has been cyclical and how much is structural. The rise in 
LFPR this year has led the Board staff to put a little more of the improvement into 
structural changes. This is particularly tricky because the lags from labor market 

conditions to participation appear to be quite long and much longer than suspected 
before the current cycle. 
Indeed, we now think that there are fairly substantial lags between changes in 
labor market conditions and participation. The black line in the bottom-left panel 
shows the gap between the staff’s trend participation rate and actual participation. 
This gap reflects the cyclical swings in participation as well as transitory factors. The 
gap peaked in 2013, well after the unemployment gap, the red line, and in our 
estimation it only closed last year—again, well after the unemployment rate gap 
closed. This large and lagged response has only become evident with this deep and 
extended cycle. The staff’s cyclical gap is now similar to one suggested in the 
canonical 2014 Brookings paper by Aaronson and other staff members, shown by the 
green line, that incorporates lags of up to three years. However, at the time of that 
paper, they did not put much weight on those results, and they judged the cyclical 
shortfall to be much smaller. As more data have become available, the staff’s 
assessment has also gradually adopted this stronger cyclical response. 
The bottom-right panel shows the staff’s estimate of trend participation, also 
adjusted to remove aging. After falling for many years, we estimate that it is 
currently rising slowly. This rise may reflect the strong labor market or other factors 
such as rising levels of educational attainment. Your next slide examines some of the 
demographic groups where change may be occurring. 
The top-left panel shows the participation rate for prime-age males—that is, those 
aged 25 to 54. The red line is a trend line from 1970 to 2005 extended forward. With 
participation now near its former trend, it may be the case that the swing below trend 
and back are just cyclical movements. But it could also be the case that some of the 
recent improvement is a mix of cyclical and structural factors, particularly because 
the rebound has been so strong. Meanwhile, prime-age female participation shown to 
the right has now recovered to its 2008 high, with participation among younger 
prime-age women at all-time highs. This may reflect a variety of factors beyond the 
cyclical ones, including increasing levels of education, lower birth rates, lower 
marriage rates, and even perhaps the 2017 tax law. 
The lower-left panel documents the continuing rise in “post prime” participation. 
For example, the group aged 60 to 64 that is close to my heart [laughter]—that’s only 
for my twin brother—and shown by the red line has increased 10 percentage points 
over the past 20 years. The increases in post-prime groups may reflect a variety of 
factors, including the rise in prime-age female participation in earlier decades, the 
shift to work that is less physically taxing, and the increased age requirements for full 
social security benefits. 
Finally, the bottom-right panel looks at youth. The black line shows that there’s 
been no recovery in participation, which fell sharply during the recession. This 
reflects a variety of factors. For one, the increasing share of the young are in 
school—either high school or college, as displayed by the orange dashed line. 
Second, fewer students are working. You can see the share of the population that is 

in school and not in the labor force, the solid orange line, is rising, and this essentially 
mirrors the drop in the labor force participation. This new normal, therefore, is less 
work by those in school, particularly less full-time work. This is probably a good 
thing, as research shows that grades are hurt by full-time work but not affected by 
part-time work. Accordingly, it is not surprising that graduation rates are up 
somewhat. 
Altogether, a case can be made that ongoing declines in prime-age male 
participation are being more than offset by women and older workers, resulting in a 
drifting up in structural participation. The Board staff will continue monitoring 
participation to see if our adjustments to trend have been overdone or have been too 
cautious. If the latter, the economy may have more room to grow than we’ve built 
into our projection. 
You last exhibit reviews recent inflation data using a variety of methods to filter 
out idiosyncratic or noisy changes to help gauge how much of the recent low readings 
reflects transitory factors. The top-left panel displays four different measures of PCE 
inflation. The values range from total, the black line at 1.3 percent for the 12 months 
ending in October, to the Dallas trimmed mean, the gold line at 2 percent, with core 
inflation, the red line, and the common component of core, the blue line, in between. 
These latter three measures use different methods to reduce the influence of transitory 
or nonmacroeconomic factors. Core, as you know, is an example of an exclusion 
index, the Dallas trimmed mean is a central tendency measure, and the common 
component is a dynamic factor model–based measure that we’ve developed here at 
the Board. There is mixed evidence about which of these indicators is best at filtering 
the inflation data, and we here on the Board staff view them as complements rather 
than substitutes. 
The red line in the top-right panel shows that monthly core inflation was 
unusually weak in September and October, running below 1 percent at an annual rate. 
Our common component measure found that much of that weakness reflected 
idiosyncratic price movements in individual categories, the pink portion of the bars, 
and that the common factor across items, the blue portion, was closer to 1.8 percent in 
those months. Over the past 12 months, the idiosyncratic component has been 
slightly negative, on balance, yielding the assessment shown back on the left in blue 
that inflation is running at 1.7 percent. By contrast, the Dallas trimmed mean 
indicates that inflation is running at 2 percent. What could account for these 
differences? It could be the different mean rates of inflation inherent in the two 
measures. 
One criteria used to evaluate different inflation indicators is whether the mean 
value is close to average inflation. The table in the bottom left shows that the Dallas 
trimmed mean rate tends to run a bit higher than either core PCE inflation or total 
PCE inflation over either the past 10 years or the past 20 years, while the common 
component has been quite close to actual core inflation and a bit above or equal to 
total inflation, depending on the time period. 

The panel to the right displays three-year averages of our measures—done to 
further reduce the noise in these series. I think there are two “takeaways.” First, the 
Dallas trimmed mean inflation rate has tended to run higher than the other two series. 
Second, over the past three years, with unemployment averaging 4 percent, average 
inflation has been about 1¾ percent by all of these measures if you account for the 
tendency for the Dallas trimmed mean to run high. This has also been a period when 
an appreciating dollar has been holding down inflation. 
Let me now turn the floor over to Steve to discuss things international. 
MR. KAMIN.
4 Thank you, Glenn. I’ll be referring to the handout titled 
“Material for Briefing on the International Outlook.” Over the past few quarters, our 
forecasters, one of whom is shown in the bottom left of your first slide [laughter], 
have been haunted by the prospect of failing to predict the next global recession. 
However, even though we’ve been revising down our outlook for foreign economic 
growth this year, as shown by the evolution of our forecasts in the middle panel, we 
have yet to see any convincing signs of an imminent contraction abroad, and our 
model’s estimate of the probability of a foreign recession, the right panel, has 
remained fairly low. 
In fact, while the data flow in the past several months has been mixed, as 
indicated in the left panel of your next slide, if you squint at it hard enough, and 
maybe if you have 20/20 vision, you can see some nascent signs of recovery. In 
particular, three recent developments point to some acceleration in growth abroad 
over the next few quarters. First, as shown to the right, manufacturing PMIs around 
the world have started to pick up, hinting at the possibility that the global 
manufacturing slump may be starting to ease. 
Second, as indicated in the left panel of your next slide, trade policy uncertainty—
or what we call TPU—appears to have eased since its surge over the summer, in large 
part reflecting optimism that a successful conclusion of the “phase one” trade talks 
between the United States and China will lead to a further reduction in trade tensions. 
The right panel shows that our daily measure of the TPU index, in blue, spiked last 
Monday following the announcement of reimposition of tariffs on aluminum and steel 
imports from Argentina and Brazil, the threat of tariffs on imports from France, and 
suggestions that the phase-one negotiations might be placed on hold for a 
considerable time. However, as you can see, the index quickly subsided, and we’re 
assuming that there’s sufficient momentum toward a phase-one deal that another hike 
in tariffs on Chinese goods, currently scheduled for Sunday, will be averted. We are 
also heartened by this morning’s news that an agreement has been reached to bring 
the USMCA to a vote in the Congress. This isn’t a game-changer, but it will 
probably help at the margin to boost sentiment on trade. 
A third positive development is that several major economies appear to have now 
bottomed out. As shown in your next slide, both euro-area and Chinese growth in the 
 
4 The materials used by Mr. Kamin are appended to this transcript (appendix 4). 

third quarter came in around their second-quarter pace, and the euro-area print 
actually exceeded our expectations. Growth in emerging Asia ex China, the solid 
black line at the bottom left, plunged in the third quarter, but this largely reflected the 
12 percent fall in Hong Kong’s GDP in response to political protests; excluding Hong 
Kong, shown by the red line, growth in the region has remained fairly solid. So by 
our reckoning, the real weak spot in the global economy is now Latin America, whose 
growth has languished, restrained by policy uncertainty and political unrest. 
Your next slide puts this all together. Foreign growth bottoms out in the current 
quarter and then moves up next year, driven by an easing of trade uncertainty, a 
strengthening of global manufacturing, some idiosyncratic factors such as Hong 
Kong’s rebound, and generally accommodative macroeconomic policies. Lest this 
forecast seem too Pollyannish, note that, in 2016, we were in the middle of a similar 
slowdown. However, our March 2016 forecast of recovery of global growth, the red 
dashed line, was soon surpassed by its subsequent, sustained, and synchronized surge. 
By the way, that sentence was brought to you by the letter s. [Laughter] Moreover, 
even when this recovery we’re predicting is complete, growth will still fall short of its 
pace earlier in the decade. 
The left panel of your next slide reviews prospects for inflation in the major 
advanced economies. In Canada and the United Kingdom, inflation is already in the 
neighborhood of the 2 percent target and should remain around there. In contrast, 
inflation in the euro area hits only 1.6 percent by 2022 and only 1 percent in Japan. 
In consequence, policy interest rates are likely to stay exceptionally low in these two 
economies, and rates in Canada and the United Kingdom don’t rise much higher 
either. 
Given the likelihood that they will fail to achieve their mandates anytime soon, an 
argument could be made that the ECB and BOJ should further ease monetary policy 
by lowering interest rates, ratcheting up their asset purchases, or both. However, at 
present, that seems unlikely. As summarized on your next slide, to begin with, both 
central banks are worried about the drag of low interest rates on the profitability, and 
thus financial strength, of their banks, insurance companies, and pension funds. 
Second, they are concerned that prolonged low rates and low profitability might 
encourage reach for yield and financial excesses. Third, some critics argue that any 
stimulus that negative interest rates might provide is offset by their depressive effect 
on households, who may choose to save more as a result. This issue has gained 
considerable political traction in Germany. Finally, these considerations are going to 
carry all the more weight, assuming our baseline outlook of somewhat stronger 
growth in Japan and the euro area materializes. 
Now, how worrisome would low-for-long or low-forever interest rates be for 
financial stability in the advanced foreign economies? In the remainder of my 
briefing, I’d like to review how a decade of very low interest rates has affected two 
important dimensions of risk-taking and financial stability: asset valuations and 
nonfinancial-sector leverage. 

Let’s start with asset valuations and, in particular, those of equities and corporate 
bonds. Your next slide looks at equity prices. Foreign P/E ratios, the top-left panel, 
don’t seem all that high at present, although it’s a little difficult to pick out the 
individual strands in this bowl of multicolored spaghetti. The bottom-left panel cuts 
through the clutter by showing how P/E ratios, expressed as a percentile of their 
historical distribution, moved from 2007—right before the Global Financial Crisis, 
which is expressed as the red dots—to the present, shown as the blue dots. It shows 
that, as in the United States, P/E ratios in Germany and France have risen to the upper 
reaches of their historical range. However, U.K. ratios are unchanged over the 
period, and they’ve moved down in Canada and Japan. 
The panels on the right show the equity risk premium—a measure of how much 
additional return investors are demanding as compensation for the additional risk of 
holding equities rather than bonds. As you can see, the equity risk premium has risen 
since the Global Financial Crisis for all the economies shown here. This is the 
opposite of what one would expect if low interest rates had triggered a surge in risk-
taking behavior. 
Your next slide looks at triple-B-rated corporate spreads. Since before the Global 
Financial Crisis, foreign spreads have generally risen and are near the middle of their 
historical distribution despite much lower interest rates, again suggesting that 
investors abroad have not reduced the compensation they demand in exchange for 
taking on risk. So, to sum up, we don’t see a lot of evidence of increased froth in 
foreign asset markets. 
Let’s now turn to spending, borrowing, and leverage, starting on your next slide 
with nonfinancial corporations. The top panels review corporate investment as a 
share of GDP. In almost all the economies shown, investment ratios plunged after the 
Global Financial Crisis, and then they generally rebounded only to around their pre-
crisis level. Only France shows evidence of a concerted upswing in investment. 
The bottom panels depict trends in the ratio of corporate credit to GDP, the black 
lines, and corporate leverage, or the ratio of debt to assets, the red lines. In the AFEs, 
again, only France provides some evidence of an effect of low interest rates, with 
credit rising to record levels, though leverage remains subdued. Canada’s bulge in 
credit largely reflects heightened borrowing during the commodity boom followed by 
still more borrowing as the commodity bust led to distress for many firms in that 
sector. 
Your next slide looks at households. The upper panels show household debt, in 
black, and saving rates, in red; the bottom panels depict housing prices. Canada 
provides the clearest evidence that low interest rates are driving some consumer 
exuberance—the top panel shows that household debt has risen to about 100 percent 
of GDP and saving rates have fallen to near zero; the bottom panel tracks Canada’s 
pronounced boom in housing prices. But indicators for other countries are mixed. 
German real housing prices are up since the GFC, but household debt is down and 

saving rates are up. French household debt is up, but saving rates have been range-
bound and housing prices remain below their pre-GFC peak. 
All told, as we turn to your last slide, low interest rates appear to have motivated 
some, but not a great deal, of spending, borrowing, and valuation excesses in the 
major advanced economies. This does not mean, however, that another decade of low 
interest rates would pose no risks to financial stability. There may have been 
increases in financial risk-taking that are more difficult to gauge on an aggregate 
basis, such as declines in underwriting standards and lending to riskier entities. In 
addition, low credit growth in some countries might have reflected the effects of the 
hangover from the Global Financial Crisis—including weak economic growth, risk 
aversion, and tightened regulations—that could ease over time. Finally, it could be 
that the main causality does not run from interest rates to risk-taking, but rather from 
risk-taking to interest rates. In other words, weak investment and borrowing since the 
GFC may have lowered equilibrium interest rates in these economies. Untangling 
these explanations will continue to be a worthwhile subject for future research. Kurt 
will continue our presentation. 
MR. LEWIS.
5 Thank you, Steve. I will conclude the briefings by reviewing your 
projections. To summarize: Your outlook for economic activity and inflation is 
relatively little revised from that of the September SEP, while your projections for the 
unemployment rate have declined modestly. By contrast, the majority of you 
projected lower levels of the federal funds rate for 2019 and 2020, while some of you 
also revised down your projections for the subsequent two years. As a result, the 
median projected federal funds rate path has shifted down 25 basis points for each of 
the four years in the projection period and now reflects substantial agreement that a 
flat path of the policy rate would likely be appropriate through 2020. A majority of 
you still saw the risks to your outlook for economic activity and unemployment as 
adversely skewed, although a few more of you now viewed those risks as broadly 
balanced relative to your previous projection. About one-third of you judged 
inflation risks to be weighted to the downside. 
I’ll discuss the projections in greater detail now. As shown on exhibit 1 of your 
handout, the median real GDP growth projection was unchanged for each year in the 
forecast period, though many of you slightly upgraded your growth projections for 
2020. The median unemployment rate projection for 2019 declined 0.1 percentage 
point from the September SEP, while it fell two-tenths for each of the remaining 
years. The median longer-run unemployment rate projection for the longer run also 
declined modestly, as several of you marked down your projections. The vast 
majority of you lowered your projections of core PCE inflation for 2019, resulting in 
a moderate decline in the median to 1.6 percent. In subsequent years, the median 
projections of both headline and core PCE inflation were unchanged from September. 
Exhibit 2 reports your assessments of the appropriate path of the federal funds 
rate. All of your projections of the funds rate at the end of 2019 were at the midpoint 
 
5 The materials used by Mr. Lewis are appended to this transcript (appendix 5). 

of the current range, 1.63 percent, resulting in a 25 basis point decline in the median 
projection from September. The median path of projections for the funds rate over 
the next three years has likewise shifted lower 25 basis points, but its trajectory 
remains similar to that in September. The vast majority of you currently anticipate 
that it will be appropriate to leave the target range unchanged through 2020, resulting 
in a considerable narrowing in the range of projections of the policy rate at the end of 
next year. Indeed, both the range and central tendency of your current projections 
indicate the smallest dispersion in policymakers’ views regarding the appropriate 
level for the federal funds rate one year hence since before liftoff. The median 
projection rises 25 basis points each year in 2021 and 2022, ending the forecast 
period slightly below the longer-run median of 2.5 percent, which is unchanged from 
the previous projection. 
The green diamonds in exhibit 2 show the median prescription for the federal 
funds rate based on the Taylor (1993) rule, taking as inputs your individual 
projections of inflation, the unemployment gap, and the longer-run federal funds rate. 
Across the forecast horizon, the Taylor (1993) rule prescribes a path for the federal 
funds rate notably higher than what the vast majority of you judged as appropriate—a 
gap that has generally widened relative to its size under your September projections. 
Though most of you did not cite an explicit comparison with a simple policy rule, 
your narratives suggest that this gap at least partly reflects the same factors that led 
you to revise lower your anticipated policy rate path—in particular, concerns about 
low inflation expectations and persistently below-target realized inflation, as well as 
downside risks related to trade policy and foreign growth. 
Exhibit 3 presents your judgments about the uncertainty and risks surrounding 
your projections. As shown in the left panels, most of you viewed the uncertainty 
regarding each of the four economic variables as being broadly similar to the average 
over the past 20 years, though about one-third of you continued to view the outlook 
for the unemployment rate as being more uncertain than average. As illustrated in the 
top panel on the right, the balance of risks to the outlook for real GDP growth has 
shifted somewhat toward the center. As a group, you are now more evenly split 
between those who see the risks to real GDP growth as being weighted to the 
downside and those who see them as broadly balanced, and a few of you cited the 
current stance of monetary policy as a contributing factor in making a positive change 
to your risk assessment. A similar, but smaller, shift occurred in your risk assessment 
associated with the unemployment rate projections. Most of you continue to judge 
the risks to the inflation outlook as being broadly balanced, though one more of you 
than last round assessed inflation risks to be weighted to the downside, for a total of 
six, and no one assessed the risks to inflation as being weighted to the upside. 
Your narratives discussing the sources of uncertainty or adverse risks pointed to 
concerns similar to those in your September SEP responses, including risks to output 
associated with potential escalating trade tensions, slower global growth, and weaker 
domestic business investment. These factors, as well as concerns about undesirably 
low inflation expectations, also contributed to risks to inflation. In contrast, the 
underlying strength of both consumer spending and the labor market, coupled with 

more accommodative monetary policy, were cited as balancing the risks to the growth 
outlook. As in September, the adverse effects of trade tensions on aggregate demand 
were cited as a downside risk to inflation, but the possibility that higher tariffs could 
lead to significant aggregate price pressure was also seen as a source of upside risk to 
inflation. 
This concludes the briefing material, and we welcome any questions you may 
have. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Questions for our briefers? President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Glenn, you talked about lags in labor market 
participation. I just want to make sure I understood it—the labor markets get tight, the 
unemployment rate falls, and then no lag before we see that bleed through to response in labor 
participation. Do I have that right? And, if so, can you walk me through the implications of 
that? 
MR. FOLLETTE. Yes. If you look on page 3, the bottom-left panel, the easiest way to 
talk about it with this one is the opposite experience. The labor market deteriorates, and the 
unemployment rate goes up, right? And as you can see, what we now think is going on is that 
the unemployment rate peaked in 2009 and then has improved since then as you can see with the 
red line. But you can see that our assessment of how labor force participation reacted to that was 
with a lag of several years. And so, under that assessment, one of the things that held labor force 
participation up at the beginning of the recession was the fact that people were still reacting to 
the good conditions beforehand, and it took a while for them to react to the bad conditions. 
Now, with respect to your point, on the other side it’s taken a while for them to react to 
the tight labor market as well. So in that chart, you can see that in the staff’s assessment, the 
unemployment rate gap gets closed in 2015, but participation is still unusually low for cyclical 
reasons, not for structural reasons. The cyclical effect is removed by the end of 2018. So, 

therefore, the fact that unemployment has been below the natural rate for the past three years 
would be pushing up participation on a cyclical basis over the next couple of years. 
And that’s kind of a new thought, in the sense that, in 2014, we tended to think that it was 
much more contemporaneous. If you read commentary from 2014 and 2015, you’ll hear a lot of 
people talking about how the labor market was pretty close to full employment: There was 
nothing going on in labor force participation and that sort of thing. And now you can see that 
our assessment is that there’s a lot of weakness in participation still, even in 2015, and that’s 
gone away slowly as labor markets improved. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. I want to follow up on that. You know, your work isn’t read when you say 
it’s a new idea, but let me just run through why you might see this pattern. Bart Hobijn and I 
wrote a paper on this where we noted that unemployment benefits persist for a long time, and so 
the long duration of unemployment benefits elevated labor force participation in this downturn 
even more than you would normally see, because it was just an extension, and you can’t get them 
unless you say you’re looking for work. So it’s mechanical, almost. 
MR. FOLLETTE. Right. Yes, so we had that part in there. 
MS. DALY. Yes, so you go through that. But the common dynamic is that there’s this 
lag. People stay in, they’re more optimistic that we’ll turn around soon, and then they go out. 
And there are fixed costs to moving in and out, and these fixed costs of moving in and out delay 
the reentry. 
And so, I mean, I’m not that different from all of you in this regard, so I’m not trying to 
say, “Well, I knew this and you didn’t.” But what I think all of us made the mistake on—and I 

mentioned this from the Fed Listens framework review today—is that I’ve now come to believe 
that we were much more pessimistic about the elasticity of the labor supply response. 
MR. FOLLETTE. Right. 
MS. DALY. And so we misallocated too much to structural and too little to cyclical. 
MR. FOLLETTE. Exactly. 
MS. DALY. Would you agree with that? 
MR. FOLLETTE. Yes. 
MS. DALY. Okay. So then I want to ask a broader question. Given that we made—
now, you mentioned this, Glenn, and I thought, this is how we all do our work: We wait for a 
decade until we’re really certain it happened. And what I’m asking now is, you all have been 
hanging on really hard to 4.4 percent, I think, on the natural rate of unemployment. 
MR. FOLLETTE. For a year. [Laughter] 
MS. DALY. Because before it was 4.6 percent. 
MR. FOLLETTE. Sorry, less than that—we just changed it. 
MS. DALY. No, just changed it, but I just—I mean, you’ve been slow to adjust it 
downward. And what I want to ask is, can we take any lessons from the idea that we hung onto 
some of what our historical models showed us and apply them to other measures of the labor 
market, like u*? I mean, I just want to know how you’re thinking about it. I know they’re not 
the same patterns, but the idea that we may have been too reliant on history as a predictor of the 
future—I wondered how you think about that. 
MR. FOLLETTE. Well, yes. [Laughter] First, just a little bit more on the labor force 
participation rate (LFPR). I think that what we have been doing is kind of reacting year in and 

year out in terms of—so, we didn’t come to this this round. We’ve fully moved out as that data 
came along. 
MS. DALY. Right. 
MR. FOLLETTE. And a similar thing has happened on the natural rate of 
unemployment. We’re at 4.4 percent now, and we were at 5 percent a few years ago. And so 
we’ve been slow coming down, probably, relative to—I think both the FOMC and the staff have 
started coming down at around the same time, but the FOMC has moved down a little faster. So, 
over the past year, we’ve come down two-tenths of a percent, and you’ve come down three-
tenths—I’ve got a typo in my work here. 
We’ve been slow, in part—I think we’ve been relying a lot on models that are not that 
surprised by the inflation developments, and so we’ve been looking at those models that say, 
“Well, we’re not that surprised with 1.6 percent inflation this year.” It’s a little bit low compared 
with what we were expecting—we thought it would be 1.8 percent. And so, as part of that, we 
took our natural rate down a little bit. But you’re right. I think it’s fair to say that we might be 
overly cautious on this. 
MS. DALY. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Not surprisingly, Steve, I have a question or two. If you look at 
pages 11 and 12 and just look at Japan, in all four, they’re not in a red box. So we see that 
investment hasn’t improved much. Leverage is down. Credit is down. Savings is down. Real 
house prices are down. So one conclusion, which seems to be your conclusion, is that pushing 
interest rates so low that you can’t affect housing or wealth—and Japan would be a leading 
example—an alternative hypothesis would be that if you allow the economy to experience a 

financial crisis because both home prices and equity prices declined 50 percent, at that point, 
monetary policy probably won’t work, particularly when the demographics are negative. So one 
reaction to Japan not being in a red box is that they faced such a horrific collapse in 1990 that, 30 
or 40 years later, they still haven’t been able to recover. So I might draw a little different 
conclusion than you as I follow the boxes. 
And then a second question would be, looking just at real housing prices—I look at 
Canada and Germany and see how much the housing prices have gone up. And if I ask how 
much has the median family income gone up in those countries and ask who can afford a house 
in Canada or Germany now—unless you’re extremely wealthy and inherit a lot of money, you’re 
not able to buy a house. So I wonder if I would draw the same conclusions from the set of charts 
that you showed and wonder if you have a comment. 
MR. KAMIN. No comment. [Laughter] Actually, I don’t disagree with your 
interpretation of the boxes themselves, and I appreciate that you’re able to glom on to them so 
quickly as I whizzed through them. I would actually retreat back to what I stated in my last 
wrap-up conclusion, when I said that just because we don’t see these things in the data over the 
past decade does not mean that if low rates stay low for a further long period that we won’t see 
them. And I cited three reasons why that might be. 
One of them is, aggregate data might obscure risk-taking at the micro level, and we 
certainly see that in Japan, right? We see regional banks that are really hurting for profitability 
lending to riskier entities. We see banks of all sizes doing more overseas investment, but that’s 
risk-taking at the margin: increasing duration, buying U.S. investment-grade stuff. We see the 
beginnings of reach for yield in Japan, but it just hasn’t reached long enough. 

The second point I mentioned is that maybe the hangover from the Global Financial 
Crisis by increasing regulation and, in particular, by pummeling the economy and increasing risk 
aversion has held up the process of economies responding to low rates. In Japan, that happened 
a lot earlier than in all of these other economies, but it happened in a very egregious way. So I 
could completely buy the view that, over time, as the hangover from both the bubble bursting in 
Japan and then the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) goes away, I could and might, indeed, expect 
low interest rates to eventually incentivize more financial excess as risk-taking. 
And then, finally, I noted the likelihood that a lot of the low rates we’re seeing are 
because corporations and households are not risk-taking. And, again, I could easily imagine that, 
over time, as those factors recede, the “low-for-long, low-forever” rates do, indeed, promote 
greater risk-taking. So, as I say, I’m not trying to use the experience of the past decade to 
disprove the idea that low rates encourage risk-taking—just to note that, in practice, we haven’t 
seen too much evidence for it, because those effects can be moderated or muted by other things. 
On the issue of rising house prices, I’m certainly willing to put Canada in the “low rates 
have encouraged risk-taking” camp. Canada looks like a clear case in which low rates have 
provided an incentive to that behavior. In the German case, I would note that a lot of the 
increase in house prices that we’ve seen has actually been an offset to earlier declines. And you 
see very similar patterns, in terms of real house prices, if you look at house price–to-income 
ratios and if you look at house price–to-rent ratios. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. A comment on the international deck. Steve, great job. I learned a lot 
from this. On page 2—and I think our forecast was in line with a lot of other folks—relative to 

what we thought a year ago, there’s been a big markdown on what 2019 turned out. And I think 
these are U.S. export weights, so this is a good metric. You know, about a percentage point 
decline in export demand—and you factor in the dollar and the multipliers—is not a small effect. 
I think I’ve seen other simulations from your group that are essentially alternative 
scenarios of a decline in export demand. So if you were to quantify this and turn this into some 
sort of a ballpark estimate, how much of a headwind to aggregate demand has this been this year 
ex post? I’m not saying what was the forecast, but ex post, knowing what we know now, how 
much of a headwind has this big decline in demand been? 
MR. KAMIN. You mean in terms of actual U.S. GDP growth? 
MR. CLARIDA. Yes. 
MR. KAMIN. That’s a good question. I’m wondering if—well , I’ll tell you. Let me 
start by saying a few things to give Stacey a chance to—one thing that’s surprising and that I will 
note is that, ordinarily, we would think that a big, sharp fall in foreign growth would affect the 
U.S. economy through net exports. And we actually have not seen that much of a deterioration 
of net exports. But that’s been for a number of peculiar reasons. One of the factors that has, in 
some sense, led to the global downturn has been our trade policy, and so we’ve got tariffs that 
have buffered some decline in imports. But another factor is that our imports have actually been 
inexplicably weak—weaker than we would expect, given our tariffs. So for a number of reasons, 
that primary effect hasn’t affected us, and I think the effect of the foreign growth shortfall on the 
U.S. economy has come from sentiment, financial market effects, things like that. Maybe I’ll 
pass it to Stacey. 
MS. TEVLIN. Yes. A lot of it, we think, does come through the financial markets, and 
we don’t have that parsed exactly. That’s hard to parse into separate items. 

MR. CLARIDA. Yes. 
MS. TEVLIN. We think some of the weakness in the global outlook is something that’s 
being reflected in the indicators we see about investment in terms of the profit expectations, and 
so we’ve taken down our forecast, and we think that’s consistent with what we’ve seen this year 
in profit expectations. That’s worth not quite a tenth on real GDP growth this year. And then we 
also have taken down real GDP growth just based on the other indicators from uncertainty. It’s 
actually very hard to separate them all out. I would say, altogether, we’re taking, if you’re not 
looking at the direct effects of trade policy effects, a couple of tenths on GDP growth this year, if 
that was your question. 
MR. FOLLETTE. Yes. So if you add up—we do an accounting at the time of every 
Tealbook on why we adjust our forecasts up or down. And if you take the past eight Tealbooks 
from last December to now and you add them up, then on foreign growth, that’s a couple of 
tenths. There’s another tenth from the dollar. There’s a couple of tenths from heightened 
uncertainty, which we think has to do with some of those same sorts of things. So then that’s 
where it starts to get very murky. 
MR. CLARIDA. Well, the other point of forces relative to a year ago, the bond yield 
path was lower and the policy rate path was lower. So if you do the counterfactual of leaving all 
of that unchanged and ramming this through the model, you would get a bigger number, 
presumably. 
MR. FOLLETTE. Right. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. President Bullard. 

MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is for Steve Kamin. Page 6 of the current 
outlook deck—this is an important aspect of the outlook: that the foreign sector is going to 
rebound. You cite “strengthening in manufacturing, reduced trade uncertainty, rebound in Hong 
Kong.” So go through those factors and tell me why I should think they’re going to turn around. 
MR. KAMIN. Okay. Well, let’s take them one by one. On the expected strengthening 
in manufacturing, as I said, I provided on page 3 a little bit of a slight down payment on that, 
which is that we’ve got some turnaround in the purchasing managers’ indexes (PMIs), okay? So, 
to be clear, industrial production numbers globally have still continued to come in on the weak 
side in many economies, but the purchasing manager index surveys, which are a little bit more 
forward looking, do seem to indicate some turn-up. If you look at more specific areas, we note 
an upturn in high-tech manufacturing in East Asia, and that’s certainly a positive sign. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay, but if I look at those kinds of charts, one way to look at it would 
be, it’s stabilizing, it will just stay where it is, as opposed to saying it’s going to rebound. 
MR. KAMIN. Right. Let me go to the number. 
MR. BULLARD. One way to make the forecast would be to say that PMIs will stay 
around 50 globally, manufacturing won’t grow very fast, and Hong Kong will continue to have 
protests. 
MR. KAMIN. Right. I don’t disagree with that. You’re saying we need, in some sense, 
a more fundamental driver. 
MR. BULLARD. Yes. 
MR. KAMIN. Okay. And our second point is that we think that one of the factors that 
held down global manufacturing has been the increase in trade policy uncertainty and the 
response of businesses to that trade policy uncertainty. It looks like trade policy uncertainty has 

declined since the summer, when it was kind of like at a high point, and it looks like current 
developments may be pushing it down further. That is the reason why manufacturing should 
pick up as the effects of the lower uncertainty on business investment start to wane. And we 
were heartened by this morning’s news that it looks like they’re going to vote on the United 
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) and we hope will pass that. So that’s another 
positive development there. 
Now, I would note that beyond just the uncertainty about trade policy falling, it seems to 
me very reasonable to expect that as businesses start to respond to a more uncertain trade policy 
environment, they probably will put a green light to some projects that they had held off on. If it 
turns out that there’s a surge in trade tensions and a surge in trade policy uncertainty, then that 
will indeed depress the forecasts. That is just another part of our story here. 
MR. BULLARD. And then, Hong Kong—do we have any reason to think it’s going to 
turn around? 
MR. KAMIN. Again, Hong Kong GDP plunged 12 percent at an annual rate in the third 
quarter, and we expect it to fall again, at a 10 percent annual rate, in the fourth quarter. And 
those are very, very steep declines that are predicated on this eruption in social protests, okay? 
So, you know, it’s hard to know how this political story will end, but these stories do end, and 
when they do end, you usually do get a rebound in growth, okay? 
And, by the way, we are actually not predicting a rebound of the same steepness in the 
next couple of quarters as how much it fell. We’ve got close to flat or a couple of percent in Q1, 
and then 3 or 4 or 5 percent in Q2. So we’re actually predicting a more gradual rebound. 
I cited Hong Kong as one of these idiosyncratic factors. We have others. We’ve actually 
penciled in a huge decline in Chile GDP in the fourth quarter—again, in response to political 

protests. Again, we think those will be transitory, and we have real GDP growth coming back in 
Chile. So we have a number of places around the globe in which real GDP growth fell very 
precipitously in the second half of this year, and it seems reasonable to expect that to come back. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Further questions? If not, let’s go ahead and begin our go-round on 
the economy, beginning with President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Last week’s employment report continued 
to confirm a strong economy, with higher payroll employment than expected, steady wage 
growth, and a 50-year record-low unemployment rate. This is very consistent with what I have 
heard from my contacts in the District, who emphasized both a good start to the holiday season 
and continued difficulty hiring workers in a very tight labor market. 
While the risks to the outlook have received much attention, outcomes over the past three 
quarters have been surprisingly stable, and many forecasters expect that stability to continue. 
For example, the unemployment rate was 3.6 percent in the second and third quarters and will 
likely be either 3½ percent or 3.6 percent for this quarter. The November Blue Chip forecast 
expects the unemployment rate to remain near this level next year. My own forecast, like the 
Tealbook, has the unemployment rate ending next year at 3½ percent, still within its recent 
narrow band. 
Similarly, real GDP for the past two quarters has been stable at 2 percent and 2.1 percent, 
respectively. My own forecast is that real GDP growth next year will average 2 percent, not far 
from the 2.2 percent rate I expect for 2019. I believe that the recent pattern of strong 
consumption growth—buoyed by wealth, personal income, and employment increases—and 
healthy residential investment, supported by recent interest rate cuts, will continue. This strength 

will be partly offset by weakness in business investment spending, which has been depressed by 
uncertainty about trade and other policy changes that might occur after the presidential election. 
Thus, despite the risks of a global slowdown and the imposition of tariffs, the economy appears 
poised to deliver a stable outcome of growth slightly above that of potential and tight labor 
markets. 
One of the continuing puzzles in the economic data is why wages are not growing faster 
given a tight labor market. My staff have done some work to help us better understand what 
might explain the lack of stronger wage pressures during this expansion. They split industries 
between those that have added jobs relatively rapidly—which include transportation, education 
and health services, professional and business services, and leisure and hospitality—and all other 
industries in which employment has grown less quickly. What is interesting and somewhat 
counterintuitive is that those industries with surging employment have seen slower increases in 
earnings per worker, while the other industries grouping has seen faster increases in earnings per 
worker. These differences appear in national data given in the payroll survey but are also 
confirmed when using state industry employment and earnings data obtained from the quarterly 
workforce indicators. This pattern differs from that seen in earlier decades when earnings in 
these high-employment growth industries were more responsive to labor market conditions and 
grew faster than in other industries. My staff will be doing more work to better understand why 
wages seem to be growing relatively more slowly in industries with robust hiring. However, as 
reported last Friday, overall wage growth in November was 3.1 percent, and the acceleration of 
wage inflation over the past 24 months is evident. 
In addition, firms are now facing more compressed margins, which, coupled with tight 
labor markets, are likely to create additional upward pressure on prices. With 12-month core 

PCE inflation likely to increase mechanically—from dropping unusually low price increases 
from early last year—and the continued pressure of rising wages and lower profit margins, I 
expect inflation to average 1.9 percent next year and to be somewhat above 2 percent over 2020. 
In sum, I expect continued strength in the real economy and inflation near our target next 
year, with the unemployment rate remaining noticeably below my estimate of the natural rate. I 
will discuss the policy implications of those expectations tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Recent data have been broadly in line with 
moderate growth. And like President Rosengren, I see solid gains in jobs and income continuing 
to support consumer sentiment and spending. Still, ongoing trade uncertainty and weak global 
growth remain headwinds. Indeed, we are seeing further declines in manufacturing activity and 
downbeat investment indicators. 
In this context, I find it reassuring to see our recent policy accommodation already 
working through the traditional channels of monetary policy transmission. As I’ve mentioned in 
previous meetings, policy easing has been accompanied by declining mortgage interest rates and 
a notable step-up in refinancing activity. In turn, residential investment picked up in the 
previous quarter after declining for more than a year, and recent indicators suggest further 
increases in Q4. When I source my contacts, they link these two things together, especially 
when they’re bankers and builders of homes, and they note that recent actions are having a 
material effect in their communities. The standard transmission channels suggest that monetary 
policy remains effective and is in part why we are seeing the growth that we are citing. In 
looking ahead, with the waning fiscal stimulus that was noted earlier and modest monetary 

policy accommodation, I expect growth to settle at about 2 percent this year and next, slightly 
above my estimate of longer-run potential growth, which I put in at 1.7 percent. 
Now, when thinking about future potential trend growth, it’s useful to think about how 
ongoing weakness in business investment and capital goods production is going to have an 
effect. It’s concerning, because it tempers capital deepening. New work by San Francisco Fed 
Economist Andrew Foerster, along with Richmond Fed Economists Pierre-Daniel Sarte and 
Andreas Hornstein, as well as Mark Watson of Princeton University—it takes a tribe—shows 
that effects on trend growth can be quite large. So they do this bottom-up decomposition of the 
overall trend growth rate since 1950. And they do this by taking account of the sector-specific 
direct effects but also the spillovers to other sectors. And they show that, since 2000, declines in 
the durable goods sector—an important source of capital goods or investment goods—have been 
the biggest contributor to slower trend growth. 
And in addition to its indirect effect, which is actually relatively modest compared with 
its spillover effect, the slower growth in the durable goods sector has pulled down output growth 
in a lot of affiliated sectors. In other words, durable goods have a big multiplier, and simply 
looking at the effects of employment and productivity in those sectors is insufficient to really 
gather how much of an effect they are having not only on employment, but also on innovation 
and productivity in other sectors. 
If you take their model fully on board—and they’re using a combination of models and 
data—their analysis would imply that over the next decade we’d shave another ½ percentage 
point off potential growth in the United States. Although I’ve stopped short of taking that 
onboard—because, like we heard this spring, this work is early analysis—it does suggest an 
additional downside risk to potential growth that bears further watching. So I’m staying at 1.7 

percent for now. I just wanted to remark that there was an outside risk. I’m an early adopter, but 
not that early. But I think it’s useful work to recognize what the sectors are and how they are 
going to evolve and how this lack of capital deepening can have longer-term effects than just the 
one year that we’ve seen it. 
In terms of other star variables, I have kept my estimate of r* unchanged at 0.5 percent. 
However, it’s possible that weaker growth abroad and associated capital inflows into the United 
States could weigh on r* in the medium run. And, indeed, estimates from the San Francisco 
Fed’s term structure model have declined a bit since the middle of this year, and they are now 
standing at 0.3 percent in most recent data. So that’s something else to continue to watch as 
2020 emerges. 
Now, thinking about the labor market and u*, I want to start with how I think about 
employment. With the economy growing slightly above my estimate of its trend rate, I expect 
steady, though moderating, job growth. And despite a few hiccups, I would say payroll gains 
this year remain impressive, as confirmed by last week’s employment report. I’m going to hold 
to this view, but I want to take a moment to commend the return of the Tealbook alternative view 
box of Stacey and team. I think it’s really healthy and important for us to continuously challenge 
whatever the conventional wisdom is that we’re holding, and examining why the unemployment 
rate has stayed so steady despite strong job growth is a great topic. So thank you for that. 
Still, I’m going to hold on to my preferred explanation for now for plateauing 
unemployment. And I’m putting that to the rise in labor force participation, which we went over 
today. It’s been increasing solidly as job growth has been increasing, as Glenn reviewed. And 
as I mentioned earlier in our framework discussion, I think this is suggestive that labor supply is 

much more elastic than we thought, that we’ve been overemphasizing the structural hurdles and 
underemphasizing the potential for a cyclical rebound. 
So along with moderate wage growth, we’ve seen the strong economy just simply pull 
workers back in. This reentry of workers, as well as persistently muted inflation, has led me to 
really reconsider what to do with u*. And I’ve been guided by our estimates in San Francisco 
using standard state-space models and filtering techniques—this is work that’s done at the New 
York Fed as well—and I now put u* at 3.8 percent, which is two-tenths lower than my previous 
estimate in September. So, given this new estimate of u* and recent inflation data, I’ve also 
lowered my near-term outlook for core inflation a bit. I project core PCE inflation will rise just 
to 1.6 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2020, reaching 2 percent only in 2021. 
Now, I tried to find a way to be a little more hopeful, so I asked the San Francisco Fed 
research team to update their analysis on the best predictors of future inflation. And this 
dovetails nicely with the pictures that Glenn showed us earlier this afternoon. But they continue 
to find that conventional measures of core inflation have provided the most reliable signal about 
future inflation over the past 20 years, beating out alternatives—although modestly, I would 
say—such as the Dallas Fed trimmed mean or the common factor. Really, none of these are 
better than each other, but the core rate is as reliable as any and a little bit more reliable, 
depending on which analysis you run. 
And this finding is in line with a recent paper by Jim Stock and Mark Watson that finds 
that simply excluding energy from PCE inflation, rather than food and energy, best matches 
underlying PCE inflation over the sample period that they study.. And when I look at that, I 
don’t see any of those measures, either PCE inflation minus energy or PCE inflation minus food 
and energy, as flashing green signals about future inflation. So, for now, I remain cautiously 

optimistic that inflation will rise over time for some of the reasons that President Rosengren 
mentioned. This can be helped by our recent policy accommodation, and I’m also informed by 
the fact that over the past several years, fewer cyclical components of inflation have moved up as 
labor markets have tightened. And this work is done in San Francisco but also in Cleveland, as 
President Mester has mentioned. 
So, to end, with that slightly optimistic view, I am, despite the fact that it’s—well, let me 
say it differently: I remain humble. I remain a little humble about the fact that we’ve constantly 
missed on our inflation projections. I, like others, am hopeful each year when the new year 
comes that it will bring better things on the inflation front than it has in the past. But over the 
past five years, we have consistently projected that inflation would move gradually back to target 
in the time frame that we were happy with, only to have realized PCE inflation average less than 
1.5 percent for those five years. So, each year, we explained these misses with idiosyncratic one-
off factors. But as I have emphasized at previous meetings, whatever the reason, continued 
downward misses of our inflation goal will run the risk of eroding inflation expectations and 
diminishing our much-needed policy space. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. The U.S. economy is in a good place, with 
historically low unemployment and inflation somewhat below but projected to revert toward our 
2 percent target. Growth in real GDP and private domestic final purchases (PDFP) has 
downshifted from the above-trend pace of last year to a pace within the range of our estimates of 
potential growth. And I’m at the high end, I think, of the Committee—I see potential growth at 
2.2 percent. 

Labor force participation is at a cyclical peak, and prime-age participation—while 
rebounding—remains below levels seen in previous business cycle expansions. And I would like 
to second President Daly—I think the elasticity of labor supply can’t go on forever, but there 
may be more room to run, and that is relevant in thinking about growth projections. The labor 
market is robust, but there is no evidence that rising wages are a source of excessive cost-push 
pressure on price inflation. Real wages continue to rise broadly in line with underlying 
productivity, which itself has picked up to a 1.5 percent pace over the past three years—not 
great, but up about ½ percent from the previous three years. 
Indeed, if anything, the revised national income data show a noteworthy—and, to me, 
welcome—increase in the labor share of national income in recent years, revealing that, as in 
previous cycles, wage increases absorbed by margin compression are non-inflationary. And we 
saw that in the ’90s and the 2000s. Of course, as I pointed out in October, there is math 
involved, and income shares have to add to 1, and, thus, the revised data show that the profit 
share of national income has declined in recent years. And this is relevant because, as the staff 
reminds us, profit expectations are an important driver of business investment, and the decline of 
profit expectations is one reason—certainly not the only one—why we are seeing and we project 
somewhat weaker business fixed investment. 
Underlying inflation appears to be running at the 1.8 percent pace estimated by the staff, 
and I am a big fan of the staff’s work on underlying measures of inflation. I think it’s important, 
and the nice thing is that it’s econometric enough, based on market surveys or Treasury Inflation-
Protected Securities (TIPS) markets, and it’s a useful reality check. Of course, tariffs and some 
favorable year-over-year base effects may push core PCE inflation up to 2 percent in the winter, 

but as these level effects wear off, inflation is projected to fall yet again to a pace below our 
2 percent objective and, by the staff, to remain there throughout the forecast horizon. 
Now, relative to the October Tealbook, the staff has made some sensible but modest 
revisions to the baseline outlook. And I largely agree with these, but the central message 
remains unchanged from October. The modal outlook calls for roughly trend growth, with 
maximum employment and PCE inflation in the range of price stability. Fed watchers and 
financial markets are labeling this the “soft landing scenario.” But I’m superstitious, and so I 
don’t want to jinx this welcome outcome with any public embrace of the soft-landing language, 
so I won’t, but I’m among friends here. But were I back in the classroom, this is the sort of 
scenario for monetary policy in the 11th year of a business cycle that I would put in a diagram on 
the whiteboard. As I said at the conclusion of our October meeting, and I will elaborate on 
tomorrow, I believe that monetary policy is now in a good place to support these favorable 
baseline outcomes. That said, I would like to make some observations about inflation 
expectations and here again will leverage off President Daly’s comments. 
Looking at a wide range of estimates in the staff’s new—and I highly recommend it; it’s 
in the Tealbook now—common inflation expectations (CIE) index on page 24, I continue to 
believe that inflation expectations are close to, but do reside at, the low end of a range I consider 
consistent with our mandate. Now, this new index is just a simple weighted average of 
21 inflation expectation indicators, and the weights are chosen by econometrics to maximize the 
variance explained by the factors. A factor model can tell us only if inflation expectations have 
changed, not their level at a point in time. But it does indicate that, as is the case with Michigan 
and other surveys, at whatever level inflation expectations were anchored—say, in 2004, before 

the crisis, when we were at a comparable point in the cycle and underlying inflation—they are 
estimated to be anchored at a somewhat lower level today. 
I also note that the staff estimates of expected inflation obtained from the TIPS market, 
after adjusting for term and liquidity effects, have sagged noticeably this year. For much of the 
year, fluctuations in breakevens were attributed by the staff model to term and liquidity 
premiums. More recently, the declines in breakeven inflation are now being attributed, in 
material part, to declines in expected inflation. For example, if you take the average of the two 
staff models—they report technically the four-factor models with and without the random-walk 
factor—expected CPI inflation is running at about 1.9 percent five years forward, which 
translates into PCE inflation of about 1.6. 
Let me conclude with the following observation. An important insight in the academic 
literature on optimal monetary policy is that policy should aim to keep expected inflation over 
some horizon—not realized inflation—equal to target period by period. Actual inflation 
outcomes will always fluctuate in response to shocks within some range of the target. So a 
central bank’s policy, especially in the case of a bank that has a dual mandate, should not be 
evaluated on the criterion of minimizing the variance of inflation outcomes, but rather should be 
evaluated on its record of keeping inflation expectations on target. It would seem to me that, 
taking into account the challenge of precisely measuring inflation expectations, a practical way 
to support this objective would be to conduct policy with the ex-ante intention of keeping 
average inflation over some horizon equal to target. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. I would ask everyone to look at your watch [laughter] 
and come back in 30 minutes. We’re going to take our coffee break now. We’re on a good pace 
to get done early—so, 30 minutes, which will be 10 after 3 on that clock. 

 [Coffee break] 
CHAIR POWELL. Well done. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. My contact reports on economic activity were 
very similar to the previous round. Manufacturing is soft, though I do not get the sense that the 
sector overall is getting worse. That said, there definitely are segments that continue to struggle. 
Oil-related activity is weak. Some manufacturers of heavy earth-moving equipment continue to 
see declines in demand, and sales of agricultural equipment are being squeezed by poor weather-
related crop conditions as well as the effect of tariffs. I note, though, that strong state and local 
construction spending and federal support payments to farmers are cushioning the blow to 
construction and agricultural equipment producers. 
In this environment, it’s not surprising that capital spending by manufacturers remains 
moribund. As one of my contacts put it, “Anything we can delay, we are delaying.” Still, 
manufacturers are mostly holding onto labor. I’m only hearing about selected layoffs, and these 
are largely at those same heavy-equipment manufacturers with sizable exposure to international 
demand, both in the agriculture and energy sectors. 
Meanwhile, the consumer continues to do quite well. We took a deep dive into the 
household sector with our directors at our board meeting last week. No one reported any 
meaningful cracks. Bankers noted that credit quality is good. They’ve seen some increase in 
delinquencies on consumer loans, but the levels are still very low. There’s a lot of mortgage 
activity going on, both purchases and refis, so lower interest rates clearly are showing through to 
the real economy. 
All of the directors pointed to the strong labor market as being the key foundation for 
household spending. They see very tight labor conditions in both their own businesses and in 

their customers’ businesses. In a change from the previous few rounds, several reported larger 
wage increases. Many of the wage hikes appear to be aimed at keeping existing workers from 
jumping ship, as firms recognize how difficult it is to find and train new workers in the current 
tight market. In contrast, our contact in the temporary employment industry, who has a broad 
view of the labor market, reported a continuation of more moderate overall wage pressures. He 
also does a lot of international business and indicated that, in sectors other than manufacturing, 
their foreign order book was performing very well. With regard to inflation, I heard a couple of 
reports of price increases at the retail level but nothing to suggest any change in underlying 
trends. Higher inflation is just not on anyone’s radar screen. 
I’ll now turn to the national outlook. My real GDP growth forecast is broadly in line with 
that in the Tealbook. My unemployment rate path also is similar, although our Chicago Fed 
assumption about the natural rate, which we see at 4.2 percent over the longer run, is marginally 
lower than the Tealbook’s. My projection is a bit stronger than my most recent SEP submission, 
largely reflecting a slightly lower path of policy rates. I also feel the risks to the growth forecast 
have diminished some since September.There are some signs that foreign growth may be 
stabilizing. Performance in the U.S. labor market continues to be impressive, and businesses 
appear to have become accustomed—or, should I say, resigned—to the sometimes daily ebb and 
flow of Administration announcements regarding trade developments and other news about the 
political risk here and abroad. This mindset suggests more stable business sentiment. Such 
stability, while probably not enough to fuel expansion plans, does seem to reduce the risk of a 
confidence-related cutback in hiring, with the obvious negative repercussions for household 
spending. 

In contrast to growth, the incoming news on inflation has been disappointing. The latest 
slippage in core inflation, along with the lack of any increase in financial market or survey 
measures of expectations, highlights the concern that underlying inflation trends are simply too 
low. We still have work ahead of us to reach our inflation mandate, and I share President Daly’s 
concerns there. As has been my narrative for some time, I think some overshooting of 2 percent 
inflation will be necessary to boost inflation expectations to be symmetric around 2 percent and 
thus sustainably deliver on our inflation goal. To get there, my forecast incorporates an 
accommodative monetary policy rate path like that of the SEP median, as well as 
communications that convey the Committee’s desire to get inflation moving up with momentum. 
Conditioned on this policy, I have core inflation reaching target in 2021 and overshooting by 
two-tenths in 2022. 
Mr. Chair, I want to thank you for taking the coffee break when you did. It almost made 
me forget about the most horrifying thing I’ve heard at this table in quite some time. Did 
everybody hear what President Daly was suggesting about evidence from Mark Watson and 
company, that a reduction in manufacturing, in durables production, could be falling so much 
that potential output growth could go down ½ point? That’s a big, big effect, if that’s true. I 
certainly hope we understand that better before too long. But I guess, with the coffee break, I 
feel a little bit better at the moment. [Laughter] Thank, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, President Evans, for that caution. 
[Laughter] 
MR. EVANS. I mean, ½ point. 

MR. KAPLAN. I know. I have to think about that. Okay. Dallas Fed economists 
forecast growth in 2020 to be approximately 2 percent. Based on this forecast, we expect the 
unemployment rate to remain around 3.5 percent and the Dallas trimmed-mean rate to remain in 
a range of 2 percent. I normally say fairly mechanically after that, “which suggests to us that 
headline PCE inflation should approach 2 percent in the medium term due to structural factors in 
the economy more so than monetary policy.” I’m learning to be skeptical about that, but the 
Dallas trimmed mean, our core inflation method, does continue to run in the range of 2 percent. 
We believe trade uncertainty will likely persist in 2020 even with an early-stage trade 
deal that is expected, and the reason for that is, we still think the bulk of the tariffs are going to 
stay in place. We’re getting adjusted to the fact that, every few weeks, there is a new 
announcement about some new trade issue—most recently with Brazil and Argentina, which 
many of our contacts found alarming because it cited their weaker currency as the justification 
for us putting tariffs on. So it’s still a little bit jarring for the folks we talk to. As such, we 
expect global growth to remain sluggish, much like this year. Manufacturing and business 
investment will also likely, we believe, remain sluggish. I’ll talk more about that in a moment. 
We believe the consumer will continue to be the primary underpinning of the U.S. 
economy based on overall improved balance sheets and the historically tight jobs market. At a 
U-6 rating of 6.9 percent, along with discussions with our contacts, the results of our broad 
surveys suggest to us that we are at or past full employment in the United States. 
Though hourly average earnings growth is a little more than 3 percent, we believe that 
wage growth is stronger at the low end—that is, for $12 to $15 per hour workers—and stronger 
for skilled workers, particularly mid-skilled workers. We continue not to see or hear from our 
contacts about significant wage pressure in the middle—that is, $25 an hour plus benefits. Based 

on our discussions with contacts and our surveys, we believe that workers in the middle are 
placing, at this stage in the cycle, a high value on the stability of the company, promotion 
opportunities, overall benefits, and—oh, by the way, it helps if the company is in a big city 
versus a smaller town, which is another draw to keep people at the company. And they’re 
willing to trade these positives off versus looking to change jobs in order to receive higher 
wages. We think this trend may be reflected in slightly lower quits rates in the Job Openings and 
Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) reports, which means, on the margin, if someone was going to 
quit, that person may have already changed jobs. And we do think workers are cognizant, based 
on discussions with our contacts, of where we are in the economic cycle. 
We continue to hear from our contacts in the business outlook surveys about a lack of 
pricing power among companies we talk with primarily, again, due to technology and 
technology-enabled disruption. If companies do face cost increases, they’re just as likely to lead 
to margin erosion versus price increases to customers. Uncertainty regarding logistics and 
supply chain arrangements due to trade uncertainty has reduced confidence on the part of many 
businesses we talk with about their ability to use supply chains to manage their costs. 
Companies that we talk to are addressing these pressures by investing more in technology and 
looking to gain more scale primarily with merger activity, and public companies we talked with 
are looking to mask the margin pressure through significant share repurchase. They’re using the 
substantial rally along the Treasury curve to finance these activities with historically cheap debt. 
Debt cost, as all of you know, is historically low versus the cost of debt equity even taking into 
account the expansion of price-to-earnings ratios, which is going on in 2019. 
One pressure that is encouraging companies to do share repurchase and merger activity is 
activism. It’s unusual today to talk to a CEO of a publicly traded company who doesn’t either 

have an activist in the company’s stock or isn’t fearing the accumulation of the company’s stock 
by an activist. All of this puts more pressure on the CEO to increase his or her company’s share 
price in the near term. The activist playbook is to encourage debt-financed share repurchase, 
shedding of the marginal businesses, and scale-enhancing merger activity. 
We continue to see the effect of these trends, though, on the workforce, and we think 
they’re being skewed by educational attainment. If you’re one of the 46 million workers, as 
you’ve heard me say before, that has a high school education or less, we continue to think your 
job is likely either being restructured or eliminated unless you have a skill. In this job market, 
you’ll find another job, but it may well be at lower wages than the one you left, and it’s causing 
us at the Dallas Fed to do a little bit more work on the subject of job quality and in trying to 
decipher a little bit in more detail where these new jobs are coming from. Our suspicion is they 
may be “lower quality jobs” than we may have seen earlier in this cycle. 
Of course, investment in education and skills training must be done locally, and it’s 
improving but, in our view, not nearly as fast as technology and technology-enabled-disruption 
trends are developing. The implications of this are likely to be increasing wage and income 
inequality based on levels of education and skill. We are hopeful, though, as we discussed 
earlier, that running the labor force “hotter” will attract and retain more workers into the 
workforce and incentivize more investment at the local level in education and skills training. 
We note in that regard that, though Texas is lucky to enjoy pretty dramatically rising 
population growth, slowing workforce growth and flat-to-down population growth are putting 
pressure on a large number—30, 35—of states in this country to trim their spending on public 
education. Low interest rates, we also note, are putting pressure on state pension funds to meet 
their return targets, which is, in addition, putting more pressure on state budgets. 

I’ll come back to that last comment on energy. Crude production growth in the United 
States, as you heard me say before, was 1.8 million barrels a day in 2018. It’s going to be, in our 
view, 700,000 to 800,000 barrels a day this year. We think in 2020 it’s likely to be 
500,000 barrels a day or less, and we think it’s trending toward zero in 2021. What’s the reason 
for this deceleration? A rapid decline curve of shale indicates, because of that, drilling activity 
needs to keep building for production to grow, and investors, like probably never before, are now 
demanding that new cap-ex be funded from cash flow versus leverage, and there’s a much 
greater focus on returns to capital. 
And the other thing that’s happening is, most capital providers are under pressure from 
pension funds, university endowments, and big money managers due to environmental, social, 
and governance (ESG), and much more sensitivity about environmental issues. And so what 
we’re finding is, in the debt and equity markets and even in the private markets, there is not new 
capital right now going into this industry. As a result, it is our expectation now that in 2020, cap-
ex in this industry will drop as much as 15 percent. That follows, in our view, about a 5 to 10 
percent cap-ex cut this year. Based on our numbers, it’s pretty hard for U.S. business fixed 
investment to be a positive number if oil and gas or energy cap-ex is down 15 percent, but that is 
our best judgment at this point. 
Now, even with pledged production discipline from OPEC, which would normally create 
some firming in prices, we get the sense that, given the trauma that most producers are going 
through, you’d probably need to see, in our view, as much as a $10 increase in the price of oil 
from here for people to say, “I’m going to do more to try to put more cap-ex into this business.” 
I think people are just trying to survive in here. It is our view that you’re going to see much 
more this year in the way of consolidation, where possible, but because there’s not a lot of 

corporate buying in the aftermath of one large merger—I won’t mention the company names, but 
one large, very leveraged merger, which hasn’t gone well—we think you’re more likely to see 
restructuring activity and some greater number of failures in this industry. 
Having said all that, we still believe that, as you start having production growth in the 
United States trend toward zero, and when you carve out some new, long-lived projects coming 
onboard in Brazil and Norway and Guyana, global demand over the medium term is going to 
have to be met primarily from shale. And if global demand growth continues to be at 1 million 
barrels a day per year or greater, shale, as we just described, is not going to keep up with it, 
which should ultimately lead to higher prices, which ultimately may lead to greater production in 
the United States. But we think it’s unlikely to happen in 2020. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 
MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Reports of business contacts in the Fourth 
District indicate that conditions improved in recent weeks, with economic activity expanding at a 
modest pace. The Cleveland Fed staff’s diffusion index of business conditions has moved up 
over the past couple of months from readings of 0 in July and September to 20 in December. 
Conditions in manufacturing are still soft but are better than they were this summer. A large, 
diversified manufacturer told us that domestic demand has been more resilient than expected. 
Other manufacturers noted that some customers are beginning to restock the inventories they had 
allowed to run down earlier in the year. 
Contacts continue to report that ongoing trade tensions and weak global growth remain 
concerns. Some firms have delayed investments because of the uncertainty. Others are moving 
forward on their investment plans even though they don’t believe trade tensions will be resolved 
anytime soon. 

District retailers are relatively optimistic about the holiday shopping season. District 
labor market conditions remain strong but have softened a bit from earlier in the year. The 
District’s unemployment rate edged up to 4.2 percent, which is still well below the Cleveland 
staff’s estimates of its former and normal levels. Year-over-year growth in payroll employment 
in the District edged down to 0.3 percent, equal to the Cleveland staff’s estimates of its longer-
run trend. Much of the deceleration in payrolls is due to a decline in manufacturing jobs. Some 
contacts continue to report difficulty in attracting and retaining workers. The percentage of 
contacts planning to increase staffing levels in the next 12 months is lower than it was a year 
ago, consistent with growth slowing toward trend. 
Wage pressures, which had been elevated, have eased a bit, and price pressures at District 
firms remain moderate. The prices of industrial materials have declined on softer global 
industrial activity, but input costs of retailers have risen as a result of additional tariffs on 
Chinese goods that took effect on September 1. One contact reported that as U.S. apparel firms 
attempt to source more of their goods from outside China, costs of goods sourced from other 
parts of the Pacific Rim are increasing. In response, retailers are offering fewer discounts this 
holiday sales season and increasing prices on some of their products. One retailer also reported 
reducing employment levels to offset these additional costs. 
For the national economy, incoming information remains consistent with my outlook that 
over the forecast horizon the most likely outcome is that output growth will remain near its trend 
pace, which I estimate to be 2 percent, and employment growth will slow toward trend, with the 
unemployment rate remaining below 4 percent, which is below my estimate of its longer-run 
level of about 4¼ percent. And then inflation will rise gradually to 2 percent. Compared with 
my September SEP submission, I have slightly higher output growth and a slightly lower 

unemployment rate next year. These outcomes are conditioned on a shallower policy rate path 
than in September. This reflects the recent reductions in the federal funds rate. 
Business investment, manufacturing, and exports remain soft. October’s rise in 
shipments and orders of non-capital goods excluding aircraft is a tentative sign that investment in 
equipment may be beginning to stabilize, but it’s too soon to tell. Housing is responding to the 
decline in mortgage rates. Consumer spending and sentiment remain solid, supported by the 
strength in labor markets. 
The strong job growth for November, coupled with upward revisions of previous months, 
suggests there may be stronger underlying positive momentum in the economy. Payroll gains 
have averaged more than 200,000 per month for the past three months and 180,000 so far this 
year. This is well above trend. The coming benchmark revisions are likely to weaken these 
numbers, but even so, labor market conditions remain solid. We can see this in a number of 
other labor market statistics. The unemployment rate has been about 3½ percent for the past few 
months, its lowest level in about 50 years. The employment-to-population ratio has risen to a 
new peak for this expansion, and the labor force participation rate has been constant to up 
slightly this year. 
I’m estimating a longer-run unemployment rate of about 4¼ percent. But the 
performance of the labor market and the fact that the acceleration in wages hasn’t been stronger, 
with most measures remaining at about 3 percent this year, means I’m very open to the 
possibility that the natural rate of unemployment is lower than my current estimate. Another 
possibility is that some businesses have decided that further increases in wages won’t attract 
qualified workers, and they’re making other adjustments to retain their current workforce. This 
is consistent with what I’m hearing from contacts in the Fourth District. The Board’s annual 

survey on hiring plans suggests, though, that there is considerable variation across the country in 
the approaches firms are taking to attracting labor. 
There’s been little change in the inflation outlook. Measures of inflation and long-run 
inflation expectations are consistent, with inflation gradually rising to our 2 percent objective 
over the forecast horizon. Headline PCE inflation has been held down by energy prices this year, 
and core PCE inflation has also been subdued. However, other measures of inflation that focus 
on the center of the distribution of price changes point to somewhat stronger inflationary 
pressures than do the headline and core measures. The median PCE and CPI inflation measures 
published by the Cleveland Fed’s Center for Inflation Research have remained near expansion 
highs, with the median PCE inflation measure at 2.7 percent and the median CPI measure at 
3 percent. The cyclical component of core PCE inflation constructed by the Cleveland Fed staff 
using finely disaggregated data is close to its highest level of the post-crisis period, coming in at 
2.9 percent in October. 
Over the past few meetings we’ve received mixed readings on longer-run inflation 
expectations. Recent readings have been broadly stable, although soft in some cases. The long-
run CPI inflation forecast from Blue Chip Financial was unchanged in December at 2.1 percent. 
The Cleveland Fed’s five-year, five-year-forward measure of expectations, which combines 
market and survey data, edged up to 1.8 percent in November. And readings on household 
longer-run inflation expectations from New York and from the Michigan surveys remain soft. 
Overall, in my view, the price data remain consistent with a gradual and sustained 
firming in inflation to our 2 percent goal over the forecast horizon as the expansion continues, 
and this inflation forecast is supported by a shallower policy rate path than I had in my 
September projection, with the funds rate remaining at its current level through most of next year 

and then moving up with only a few more 25 basis point increases over the rest of the forecast 
horizon. Now, a variety of simple monetary policy rules, including those available in the 
Cleveland Fed’s website, suggest a steeper policy rate path would be appropriate. However, the 
shallower path I built into my forecast reflects the recent cuts in the funds rate and an 
opportunistic approach to supporting inflation moving back to 2 percent. 
So long as output growth remains at trend and the labor market remains solid, my 
assessment of appropriate policy refrains from taking deliberate action at this point to try to 
reinflate the economy but also refrains from taking deliberate action to curtail an inflation 
overshoot so long as inflation isn’t expected to rise too far above 2 percent. I see this path as 
consistent with a balanced approach to achieving our goals. It takes into account the softness in 
inflation and inflation expectations; the risks to my global outlook, including trade policy and 
soft global growth, which I now see as tilted still to the downside but less so than in the time of 
my September projections; and the risks to financial stability that arise in a low interest rate 
environment. 
The economy and policy are in a good spot right now, giving us time to see how inflation 
and economic activity evolve before making any change to the funds rate, either up or down. Of 
course, a substantial change in the outlook would necessitate a reassessment of this policy rate 
path. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’m in general agreement with the staff forecast, 
although I remain a bit more optimistic that inflation will return to target in 2021. I realize, 
though, that there is a measurable risk to my scenario of inflation returning to target, because 
inflation has been persistently under target for some time and most recent readings on inflation 

disappointed a bit to the downside. Now, that’s only one data point, and I’m placing more 
weight on the recent firming trend. Regional economic data support my projection of trend-like 
growth and inflation returning to target. What I’ve heard in discussions with contacts in the 
region is also consistent with my forecast submission. 
Unemployment in the District picked up 0.1 percentage point in October but remains at 
very low levels, and employment growth has been improving for the past two months. The labor 
force participation rate is also showing a modest upward trend. Labor markets are tight, and 
contacts cite the inability to find workers with required skills as the primary impediment to 
hiring. Relative to last November, more firms are indicating they are hiring less-qualified 
workers and providing training, and 44 percent mentioned that they are increasingly using 
technology to replace labor, consistent with what President Kaplan said. 
For selective categories of jobs, wages are rising at a very healthy pace, but not all 
workers, of course, are experiencing a jump in pay. Like the nation, economic growth in the 
region is driven by the consumer, and that growth was reflected in our November 
nonmanufacturing survey, which jumped back to its historical average. As well, new orders, 
sales, and employment indexes all remain above historical averages. Nonmanufacturers also 
report significant optimism. 
Based on our business outlook survey, manufacturing in our region continues to 
outperform the nation. Although the current activity index has rebounded back to its 
nonrecessionary average, the details of the report were significantly weaker, with declines in 
both new orders and shipment. An average of the five regional manufacturing surveys from 
Federal Reserve Banks put the manufacturing sector slightly in positive territory, indicating that 

we may see some future improvement in the sector. Like the nonmanufacturers in the region, 
our manufacturers, despite all this, continue to remain upbeat. 
Information from various contacts confirms what we’re seeing in our surveys. One 
contact indicated that his customers remain optimistic, and another indicated having less 
uncertainty going into 2020. He is also obtaining funding from German and Japanese lenders, as 
investors in those countries are coming to him and looking for yield—those positive returns. The 
third contact indicated that his consumer-based businesses are doing well but that his industrial-
focused business lines are finding growth elusive. He also indicated that some IT-sophisticated 
firms are cutting inventory and forcing him to respond more quickly when demand picks up. He 
mentioned a shift of inventory toward distributors as the risk of stock-outs increases. Another 
manufacturer indicated that tariffs are now hitting home and the shortage of materials is delaying 
some projects. 
On inflation, one-year-ahead inflation expectations of firms in our region have been on a 
downward trajectory since the middle of last year and now stand at approximately 2.4 percent. 
They appear to be converging to the SPF forecast. Predictions of own-price inflation have also 
become significantly more muted and are now slightly below 2 percent. According to the latest 
survey, there appears to be very little price pressure in the District. However, expectations of 
compensation growth have risen modestly. 
To summarize, the District’s economy is, like it tends to always be, growing modestly, 
with growth almost entirely driven by the consumer, which is in line with what we’re seeing 
nationally. The most recent data indicate that the economy will continue to expand, and my 
forecast continues to project trend-like growth and the return of inflation to target. However, in 
light of the recent behavior of inflation and its lack of a significant response to increased policy 

accommodation, I’ve maintained my view that the long-run neutral federal funds rate is 
2.5 percent in my forecast. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. In my discussions with market contacts, they indicated 
that repo operations and reserve management purchases of T-bills were going well, and they 
understand our plan for the next few months. However, there’s a growing desire for clarity about 
our framework beyond that, particularly surrounding what constitutes ample reserves and some 
question whether there is agreement among the Committee on that. It’s important to provide 
further clarity on the initially targeted level of reserves that would be consistent with a more 
passive approach to reserve management and the guidelines for trend growth thereafter. 
Our early September guidance was an expedient reference point, but it will soon be time 
to clarify our thinking and ground it in fundamentals about reserve management. I would favor 
being clear that our goal is to maintain effective control over the federal funds rate and 
transmission to other short-term funding markets, with only rare need for operations. In service 
of that goal, we should continue to increase reserves to a level that provides a sufficient buffer to 
absorb foreseeable large fluctuations in nonreserve liabilities and trend growth thereafter. 
I’m mindful of the fact that we knew all of the autonomous factors that would pressure 
reserves in mid-September: the rebalancing of the Treasury General Account after the 
suspension of the debt limit, corporate tax payments, and ongoing high levels of Treasury 
security issuance. And, as Lorie Logan showed in exhibit 11, we saw and discussed the building 
pressure on the federal funds rate relative to the IOER rate. Despite that, the market volatility 
caught all of us by surprise. We should seek to avoid a repeat that would generate confusion 
about our ample-reserves regime. That said, I agree with the general approach to tapering 

proposed by Lorie Logan. I also support a shift to short coupon securities, if needed, to avoid 
disruptions. The market expectation is that a standing repo facility will ultimately be announced, 
and this makes sense as a backstop for repo markets in times of stress. 
Most immediately, as was noted, funding conditions over year-end remain a key focus. 
Several contacts indicated dealers have been proactively warning their clients to expect 
significant reductions in balance sheet availability. The fact that market contacts are attentive to 
the year-end pullback in various markets by the G-SIB dealers that are close to a step-up in their 
surcharge bucket and the fact that the Fed’s term operations spanning year-end have been 
oversubscribed was noted by contacts as evidence that market participants are actively 
prefunding positions. Having observed this behavior now for three years, my own inclination 
would be to move quickly to address this unnecessary contributor to year-end volatility. I 
support replacing the G-SIB surcharge buckets with a more continuous or near-continuous 
methodology and avoiding the statement-day window-dressing problem by moving to averaging 
across the year. These are straightforward fixes that can be done in a way that’s capital neutral. 
Regarding the outlook, data on aggregate spending and the labor market have come in 
somewhat stronger than anticipated. A strong labor market and strong sentiment are supporting 
solid consumer spending. Although business investment, trade, and manufacturing remain 
downbeat, reflecting weak growth abroad and trade conflict, there is little sign that the softness 
in these sectors is spilling over to the broader economy. Indeed, the latest data suggest that the 
deceleration from the first to the second half of the year was more modest than we expected, and 
there is solid momentum going into next year. Moreover, financial conditions appear very 
accommodative. Every financial conditions index (FCI) I consult is near the low end of its 
historical range. On net, I’ve revised up my modal outlook very modestly. 

The two employment reports released since we met in October surprised to the upside 
and suggest that employment conditions are very strong, consistent with a lot of the business 
contacts that you’ve referenced. Even taking into account the General Motors (GM) strike puts-
and-takes and the anticipated Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) payroll revisions, the three-
month average of monthly payroll gains is above 200,000—about 50,000 higher than at the time 
of the October meeting. And the latest data point to some acceleration rather than deceleration in 
payroll gains from the first to the second half. Last month, the unemployment rate inched back 
down to its lowest level in five decades, and the employment-to-population (EPOP) ratio for 
prime-age adults is just above 80 percent, equal to its pre-recession peak. Despite this 
tightening, wage growth remains moderate. Layoff indicators, including initial claims, remain at 
low levels. 
On the spending side, the incoming data surpassed my expectations, leading the staff to 
revise its estimate of GDP growth in the second half from just above 1½ percent to almost 
2 percent. After accounting for a deceleration in government purchases and the GM strike, 
growth in private domestic final purchases, which tends to provide a better signal of underlying 
momentum, is projected to slow only ¼ percentage point in the second half. Consumer spending 
increased at a robust 3 percent in the third quarter, and the latest indicators, which include an 
upbeat preliminary December reading on sentiment, continue to point to solid growth despite 
some deceleration in the October retail and motor vehicle sales. 
And, as others have noted, in the housing sector, the decline in mortgage rates since late 
2018 appears to have spurred a welcome rebound. By contrast, inflation data have come in on 
the soft side, with core PCE prices increasing only 1.6 percent over the 12 months through 

October. Market-based measures of inflation compensation have moved modestly higher, but 
the latest survey measures sit at the low end of their recent ranges. 
Business fixed investment is still expected to post a modest decline in the second half 
after having increased at an anemic 1¾ percent rate in the first half. Manufacturing PMIs remain 
downbeat, and net exports are expected to be roughly neutral for GDP growth in the second half, 
reflecting weakness in both exports and imports likely due, at least in part, to previously 
implemented tariffs. 
Overall, it appears foreign growth was weak in the third quarter, and the latest indicators 
point to little improvement in the fourth quarter. Manufacturing remains weak throughout most 
of the world and foreign growth data have generally disappointed, although a few data points 
have been read as suggesting some stabilization in the euro area and China. The ongoing 
protests in Hong Kong are troubling, and the general election in the United Kingdom later this 
week bears watching. In recent months, we’ve seen notable weakening in Latin America. 
Although risks remain, market participants see the U.S. outlook as more resilient to these 
risks, and recession probabilities implied by models using market data have declined 
significantly since our previous meeting. The U.S. economy’s resilience has been the dominant 
theme despite volatile news on trade, including the surprise announcement of new tariffs on 
imported steel and aluminum from Brazil and Argentina and on French goods. In my 
discussions with market participants, there was a widespread expectation that the threatened 
tariffs on consumer goods imports from China scheduled for December 15 would be averted, so 
a reescalation of trade conflict could be expected to reignite some level of market volatility. 
Financial conditions are easing, and risk assets have done particularly well in the 
intermeeting period, with U.S. equities increasing 3 percent on net and investment credit spreads 

tightening a little further. Market participants continue to highlight risks associated with triple-
B-rated investment-grade debt. With a triple-B segment now 2.8 times the size of the high-yield 
market, market participants are concerned about the capacity of that market to absorb so-called 
fallen angels without dislocations, given continued growth and increasing leverage. 
Over the past few months, the Committee has taken significant action to buffer the 
economy from weak foreign growth and ongoing volatility associated with trade conflict. I’ll be 
watching the data carefully as the full effect of this accommodation works its way through 
economic activity, the labor market, and inflation. I look forward to discussing policy 
implications tomorrow. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. On balance, Eighth District business contacts 
continue to be moderately optimistic concerning the outlook for the fourth quarter and into the 
first half of 2020. The end of the GM strike was mentioned as a welcome development, and the 
state of the auto sector was generally viewed as satisfactory. Agribusiness continued to be an 
area of concern. Labor markets continue to be described as tight, but District firms seem to be 
on track for continued hiring in the first half of 2020. Contacts in higher education continued to 
note substantial enrollment declines causing disruption and significant retrenchment. 
Nationally, real GDP growth appears to be holding up somewhat better than might have 
been anticipated a few months ago. In part, this may be due to the more accommodative 
monetary policy this Committee has put in place during 2019. The recent jobs report was 
certainly encouraging in this regard, although I would remind the Committee that the year-over-
year growth rate for payroll jobs remains below 1.5 percent. It’s been declining all of 2019, and 
the current reading is one of the lower readings of the past five years. 

U.S. unemployment—I’m not sure why we don’t look at the year-over-year rate. We 
look at the year-over-year rate for everything else. Why not for jobs? So the U.S. 
unemployment rate moved again to 3.5 percent and has now been below 4½ percent for about 
two and a half years. Despite this extraordinary run, pressure on inflation remains muted, with 
the Tealbook now projecting core PCE inflation of just 1.6 percent for 2019 and 1.9 percent for 
2020. In my view, this inflation outlook is unsatisfactory. 
The Tealbook forecast appears to be consistent with private-sector forecasts on most 
dimensions but not on the short-term interest rate, where the staff model suggests rates that are 
still above the top-10 average of the Blue Chip over the forecast horizon. It does seem like the 
Tealbook could get inflation to 2 percent with a somewhat more accommodative policy rate path, 
such as the one in place in private-sector forecasts. 
The yield curve has returned closer to an upward slope. The 10 year–2 year slope has 
been trading at around plus-20 basis points. I would characterize the current state of the yield 
curve as mostly flat going out to five years and then somewhat upward sloping from there. I 
think this is a better situation than we were in previously, but it’s not terribly comforting. Many 
recession probability models that rely on spread variables are showing lower probability of 
recession in the next 12 months. I think that’s a welcome development. TIPS breakevens have 
recovered somewhat during the intermeeting period but not enough so far, so we still have some 
way to go on expected inflation. 
I have a final comment on the trade war and business adjustment. As I have been saying 
for some time, I think the trade war is likely to continue on during 2020. I see any kind of quick 
resolution as highly unlikely. These are very difficult issues. To get a satisfactory resolution, 
they would have to be negotiated on for many years. 

I see tariff uncertainty as likely to remain high over the forecast horizon. But I also think 
that this has been going on for about 18 months, and businesses are adjusting their practices. So 
they are changing their business models, and, above all, they are rearranging their supply chains, 
taking into account the higher level of uncertainty that now exists in the trade arena. These 
adjustments take the form of, instead of putting all of your factories in one country and counting 
on the trade relations to remain the same between that country and the United States, you might 
instead spread out your factories over many countries and make provisions so that you can 
switch production from one country to another. That’s a simplistic description. But I think 
sophisticated strategies are being put in place, as you would expect in any kind of uncertain 
environment, with major businesses and a lot of investment at stake. 
So the bottom line is that, from our perspective, we may want to view trade uncertainty as 
a one-time shock to growth. It would be something that would disrupt the supply chain for 
18 months or two years. But after that, some adjustment would be made, and then the 
economies—the global economy and the U.S. economy—would start growing at the previous 
pace, having now adjusted to the fact that the tariff situation is less stable than it once was. If 
you take that sort of a view, then I think prospects for 2020 GDP growth and other factors in the 
U.S. economy may be somewhat brighter than otherwise, given this adjustment. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Like everyone else, I think the overall economy 
remains sound and at the near-trend pace we have been forecasting. Consumer spending, of 
course, has been the stabilizing force in our economy. The data have been a bit softer of late, 
with PCE increasing only at a 1 percent annual rate in October. But the fundamentals for 

spending remain strong, with the job market healthy, real incomes rising, consumer sentiment 
still high, savings rates robust, and credit markets open. 
Like others, in my conversations on the consumer side, I hear positive reports on this 
holiday season, and the recent strength in residential investment is cause for optimism as well. 
The labor market remains a particular bright spot and the lead driver of consumer spending. 
Payroll employment is still growing strongly. Labor force participation is high. And, as 
Governor Brainard said, the prime-age employment-to-population ratio has now exceeded its 
previous cycle peak. 
Initial unemployment claims remain low. We continue to hear of significant wage 
increases at entry levels, and our surveys reinforce that tightness. To those who would expect to 
see even greater increases, some work by my staff—reverse-engineering JOLTS data—would 
suggest part of the explanation could be a 10-day increase in the time to fill jobs in the past four 
years. Perhaps rather than paying more, employers are investing more on search. 
Markets seem to have responded well to our recent moves. I welcome the steepening of 
the yield curve, particularly on the long end, as well as the repricing of highest-risk debt. In 
contrast, like many others, I have been disappointed by the recent trend in inflation. After a 
robust second quarter, I had hoped to see more momentum in the third. Some increase should 
come as the soft readings early this year recede further into the past, and I hope our recent moves 
will have an effect in time. 
I’ve also noted the continued weakness in business investment. It’s interesting to talk to 
contacts about their 2020 plans. They are nervous about the macroeconomy despite seeming 
clarity on Brexit and potential progress on trade. But when you ask them about their own 
businesses, they, with the exception of manufacturers, describe a healthy outlook. As an 

example, I served on the Virginia Governor’s Advisory Council on Revenue Estimates two 
weeks ago. There are still seats available on that committee for anyone who is interested. 
[Laughter] 
The state came in with a conservative outlook for its economy next year. Twenty CEOs 
were present. Each one described their own business as sound and, at the end of that discussion 
of a diversified set of businesses, concluded the state should upgrade their forecast. I was in the 
minority there. I anticipate seasonal behavior associated with elevated uncertainty. The end of 
the year is the time when uncertainty can have the most effect, as we learned last year. 
Remember that we’re in budget season. In today’s uncertain world, even companies with 
healthy outlooks plan cautiously. 
While no one tells me they are cutting back, these companies tell me they are forecasting 
low growth. They are keeping operating expenses and capital expenditures flat. They are 
slowing the filling of open positions and shaving inventories. They are resisting price increases. 
They are paying down debt. These planning choices run the risk of depressing first quarter 
growth. On the positive side, if individual businesses start healthy in the new year, my 
consulting experience taught me that companies will loosen their wallets as the year goes on. 
Some extra impetus could also come from our recent rate moves, and I have built that step-up in 
growth into my baseline. 
I did want to flag one early positive signal on investment. You’ll remember at our 
previous meeting some banter about the World Series. I’m told President Kaplan was so 
disappointed that his 11th District Astros lost to the Fifth District Nationals that he has taken 
matters into his own hands and made a major investment of his own in the 103-loss Kansas City 
Royals. [Laughter] When smart businesspeople make big investments, even if they are 

investing outside their District, that’s a good sign for the economy, if not the American League. 
[Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Chair. In many ways, my outlook for the U.S. economy is 
substantially similar to my views at the October meeting. For 2019 overall, it looks like GDP 
growth will be a bit more than 2 percent, a larger increase than what most consider to be the 
trend rate of economic growth. Households still appear to be doing well, and the incoming data 
on retail sales and motor vehicle sales suggest consumer spending growth has retained much of 
its recent strength. Activity in the housing sector has begun to pick up more noticeably. Recent 
readings on consumer sentiment have been more positive, which bodes well for the spending 
outlook over the next few months. Of course, the labor market picture is still remarkably strong. 
Since our previous meeting, the unemployment rate has moved down further, and labor force 
participation has again strengthened relative to its underlying downward trend. 
My expectation is that labor demand will remain strong next year, and, in light of the 
latest data, I made a modest downward adjustment to my forecast for the unemployment rate in 
2020. Further to that, I think it is possible that we could see labor force participation strengthen 
even more, which would be a welcome development. 
Since our previous meeting, the domestic business-sector data have not changed 
significantly. We continue to see broadly based declines in manufacturing activity and in outlays 
for business equipment. In conversations with my business contacts, the weaker economic 
performance this year is often traced to ongoing trade policy uncertainty, as many have 
referenced before my go-round. Should this period of trade uncertainty persist, it’s likely that we 
will continue to see this influence the domestic business economy. 

Regarding agriculture, the effect of trade uncertainty is being felt broadly across the 
sector, and financial conditions among agricultural producers continue to be affected. But even 
with projections of flat income over the next five years, producers across all agricultural 
industries emphasize that trade fairness in the worldwide market is a priority. 
On a positive note, despite the bad weather conditions, many farmers reported better-
than-expected crop yields this year. But even with stronger yields, aggregate farm income would 
have declined again in 2019 had they not had the support of U.S. Department of Agriculture 
(USDA) payments. I continue to hear that many farmers face cash flow shortages and bankers 
have continued to restructure debt, with some banks reporting shifting troubled agricultural loans 
to nonaccrual status. The lower interest rate environment is helping, but, with producers 
continuing to borrow, short-term debt and its servicing are often cited as producers’ biggest 
worry. 
Many landowners are stressed to the point of accessing equity in land, leading to more 
land available for sale in some areas. So far, reports indicate that this is not widespread, but 
lesser-quality ground will likely see a deterioration in value if this becomes a wider trend. 
Generally, farmland values have remained fairly stable, but with persistently low prices for farm 
commodities, land values continue to appear increasingly elevated in relation to the land’s 
potential to earn income, specifically with respect to cash flow to farm the ground and its rental 
value as an investment. 
As generational pressures increase, the average age of farmers in the United States is 
nearly 60 years old, and the new or beginning farmer’s average age is nearly 50. Some see the 
future of agriculture shifting. Structuring ownership in a different way to attract long-term 
workers and to create a succession plan, significantly increasing the scale of an operation, or 

choosing to do custom work instead of investing in the input costs are often discussed as options. 
One interesting approach by a large, well-known retailer is to own the entire life-cycle process, 
from raising the hatchling to selling the rotisserie chicken in the store. Time will tell, and I’ll 
continue to watch developments in this area closely. 
Regarding the price stability side of our mandate, the incoming price data have been 
softer than expected and suggest that core inflation has continued to track below our 2 percent 
goal. The staff have noted that the recent soft readings have been concentrated in some of the 
noisier price categories, and they predict that core inflation will pick up to 2 percent by the 
middle of next year. I’ll continue to watch inflation developments closely over the next several 
months for signs of this to be reflected in our inflation measures. 
In all, I believe the U.S. economy continues to be in a good place, and I remain optimistic 
that, with the support of the additional monetary policy stimulus that we’ve provided this year, 
the U.S. economy is well positioned to continue expanding next year. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This round, we performed a little experiment. In 
a lead-up to our board meetings, we asked our directors, about 35 respondents, to engage in the 
same exercise that we are asked to do and submit a summary of economic projections, which 
included some firm-specific forecasts and their projections of real GDP growth, the 
unemployment rate, PCE inflation, and the federal funds rate. The results, for the most part, 
were very similar to our projections—which I suppose isn’t too surprising. 
There was one meaningful difference in their projections from that of the FOMC. My 
directors’ collective responses on longer-run PCE inflation ranged between 1.5 percent and 
2.5 percent rather than collapsing to a singular point like ours does. The subsequent discussion 

was revealing. There were no worries that our recent inflation experience was somehow going to 
lead to some sort of pernicious deflationary episode. Nor were there any soundings that 
suggested firms would alter their business decisions if inflation continues to come in around but 
not exactly on target. In short, these business leaders and bankers do not share the same “point 
sensitivity” with regard to price stability that we appear to have. 
My “takeaway” from this discussion is that business decisionmakers, at least those 
decisionmakers among my boards of directors, are not viewing recent history as a material 
deviation from our target. Anywhere in the range of 1.5 percent to 2.5 percent is close enough 
for government to work for them. Their expectations were still centered on 2 percent, but 
inflation outcomes that are a little bit below or above the target appear to be a nonissue for them. 
No one expressed the view that the Committee needs to demonstrate that we can hit the 2 percent 
target. In their view, we actually are effectively on target. 
This dovetails with President Rosengren’s observations regarding the Fed Listens events, 
and these are observations that were echoed by others around this table. Essentially, my 
directors’ remarks sound an awful lot like the Greenspan definition of price stability, which I’ll 
paraphrase as “A rate of inflation that is low and stable enough that people effectively stop 
thinking about it.” 
But I think the exercise reveals something even more powerful than that. As I see it, the 
real concern about expectations being anchored somewhat below 2 percent is twofold. First, 
anchoring below target absorbs precious policy space by anchoring nominal interest rates 
somewhat below where they might otherwise be. But if, in fact, expectations have fallen below 
target at all, it seems they have only done so marginally. Re-anchoring expectations to the 

explicit target would, at best, buy one or two rate cuts. I don’t think this is anywhere near 
enough to buy meaningful insurance against future effective-lower-bound episodes. 
But that brings me to the second and, in my view, more important concern. At the 
effective lower bound, credible commitments will almost certainly be crucial to the 
implementation of policy. So demonstrating that we can actually hit the target that we have 
chosen and convince people that we are able and willing to do so is essential if the effectiveness 
of effective-lower-bound tools, like forward guidance, are to work. 
The feedback from my director discussions convinces me that the inflation outcomes for 
the past many years have not damaged our credibility or altered anyone’s opinion about our 
ability to appropriately and effectively conduct monetary policy in the event of a downturn. For 
me, the “takeaway” from the exercise with my boards is that inflation expectations are well 
anchored, and that projecting our worries about an inflation shortfall of a few tenths here or there 
may be an exercise in false precision. 
All of this harkens back to this morning’s framework discussion. There was considerable 
back-and-forth about how important it is for inflation to hit and exceed the 2 percent target and 
the implication for inflation expectations if we do or fail to do so. To me, the question is 
whether small deviation from the 2 percent point estimate is behaviorally meaningful, even in the 
context of the macro considerations that Vice Chair Williams articulated in his statement. I’m 
not sure it is and, as a consequence, have a great deal of sympathy for the policy approaches 
highlighted by President Barkin. These include using a range for the target and reporting 
multiple measures of inflation. I look forward to more discussion of these in future meetings as 
we move toward a Committee framework statement. 

As for the rest of my outlook, rather than attempt to rehash, using slightly different 
words, the same message and same sentiment my contacts have shared with me since the May 
meeting, I’ll just summarize as follows: Business prospects are still good, trade is a drag for 
those most exposed to it, a variety of factors make it unlikely we’ll see a material acceleration of 
cap-ex, labor markets remain tight, the consumer looks solid, and cautious optimism is ruling the 
day. In other words, ditto, though I do wish I had thought of doing a haiku. [Laughter] 
I’d like to close by returning to a topic raised by President Kaplan—namely, job quality 
rather than job existence as the key looming challenge. Now, this is something that some teams 
in the community development space in the System have been working on, and I recall the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston as being a particular leader here. As part of this effort, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta recently launched an Opportunity Occupations Monitor, which 
is a web-based tool to help displaced workers and others identify jobs that don’t require a four-
year degree but that pay something akin to a living wage. It is important that, to the extent 
possible, the job transitions associated with disruption don’t result in big increases in 
precariousness, and the tool, I believe, can be a help in this regard. 
On balance, an active approach here is preferred to a passive one that relies on workers to 
figure it out on their own. So I agree with President Kaplan that this is likely to be a growing 
issue and hope that Fed tools like this one continue to be developed and deployed. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The 10th District economy continues to 
grow but at a slightly slower pace. District contacts continue to report weakness in 
manufacturing activity, especially in durables, citing inventory buildup and uncertainty. Despite 

this softness, expectations of future activity improved slightly. On the other hand, services 
activity continues to expand, providing the largest contribution to recent employment growth in 
our region. We continue to hear from our District contacts that tight labor market conditions and 
difficulty finding qualified workers are constraining their hiring plans. More contacts report 
difficulty hiring or retaining workers compared with the previous year, with upward of 
70 percent of our contacts indicating they increased wages. 
There continues to be much less optimism, however, in the region’s energy and 
agricultural sectors. Energy activity slowed in the District, mostly driven by large reductions in 
drilling in Oklahoma but also in Colorado. A drilling service company recently announced a 
layoff of over 800 workers. Despite declining rig activity, total crude oil production in the 
District actually continues to grow—but at a slower pace compared with a year ago—and is 
expected to slow further and even decline next year. Finally, despite higher farm incomes in 
some of our District states compared with a year ago, weakness in the agricultural sector 
remains. With a second round of government payments linked to trade disruptions, these 
subsidies in total are expected to account for more than 30 percent of net farm income in some 
District states. Whether these payments will continue or trade tensions for commodities will be 
resolved is highly uncertain going into this planting cycle. 
Regarding the national economy, my outlook is relatively unchanged from our October 
meeting. I expect the economy will end this year with above-trend growth, albeit slower 
compared with last year. My SEP calls for real GDP growth to stabilize near its trend rate in the 
medium term, the unemployment rate to stay near its current level, and inflation to remain 
muted. 

This growth forecast rests principally on consumer spending. Household consumption 
data were stronger than expected in the third quarter as spending on durable and nondurable 
goods rose at a solid pace. However, with the deceleration in services consumption in the third 
quarter, downward revisions to retail sales data, and slowing in imports of consumer goods and 
autos, I expect a moderation in household spending. My forecast also has relied on high levels 
of consumer confidence. While these confidence measures remain near post-recession highs, 
expectations for the future bear watching. Based on the Conference Board survey, the 
differential between consumer expectations for the future and current sentiment has widened 
over the past several years. I’ll be monitoring this gap as a potential downside risk to household 
spending. 
A robust labor market continued to support consumer spending in 2019 even as payroll 
growth slowed in line with the economy’s potential. Payrolls have averaged 180,000 per month 
through November compared with 223,000 per month last year. While the pace of payroll 
growth has been strong in recent months compared with the first half of this year, signs of 
slowing suggest that this pace is unlikely to be sustained. Readings on the Kansas City Fed’s 
Labor Market Conditions Indicators show that both momentum and the level of activity in the 
labor market declined, and the pace of job openings has slowed according to the JOLTS. 
Even as employment growth gradually decelerates, I found the alternative view of 
employment growth in the Tealbook box worth considering. The combination of downward 
revisions to past payroll growth numbers that will be coming in February and recent weakness in 
the Automatic Data Processing (ADP) data may signal a sharper slowing in job gains than we see 
in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data. 

The rebound in residential investment continues, as consumers have responded to lower 
mortgage rates. Recent data indicate positive contributions from most major components, such 
as single-family construction and brokers’ commissions. Forward-looking measures, such as 
single family and multifamily starts and permits, continue to move up strongly. 
Inflation remains muted despite low levels of unemployment. As we look at various 
measures of inflation, my staff has noted that, over the past year, the gap between core inflation 
measures has widened as core PCE inflation declined and core CPI inflation picked up. Their 
analysis shows that, while tariffs are temporarily lifting CPI core goods prices, factors affecting 
rent and health-care services are likely to keep the wedge between the two core measures of 
inflation from fully normalizing. Given that dynamic, I take little signal from the recent increase 
in core CPI readings for underlying fundamentals for inflation. 
Finally, risks to my outlook for real activity and inflation remain to the downside. Weak 
global growth conditions, geopolitical concerns, and unresolved trade tensions continue to 
contribute to elevated levels of uncertainty that may constrain growth in the near and medium 
term. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I made only minor adjustments to my SEP 
forecast, compared with my September submission. I see continued growth next year—moderate 
growth, a touch slower than this year—and then only gradual further slowing thereafter. 
Although that outlook reflects my continued optimism regarding the strength and momentum of 
the U.S. economy, I do acknowledge that notable downside risks remain, with signs of weakness 
persisting in the manufacturing economy. The outlook for global growth remains fragile even 
after taking into account some of the moderately positive information in Steve’s presentation. 

Investment and exports have been disappointing. Last year I made a big deal of the level 
of business investment, which hasn’t continued, and I share President Daly’s concern about the 
potential long-term implications of a period of loss investment even if it were to turn around 
tomorrow on the resolution of trade chaos. And, in that regard, the outlook for trade policy 
seems to be shifting daily, leaving it somewhat difficult to assess where we stand. With the 
proposed December 15 tariff hike fast approaching, we could have a better read on where we’re 
going soon, but, like President Bullard, I’m not counting on it. 
Now, throughout the trade-induced turmoil of the past year, economic growth has 
continued to be supported by the strength of the labor market. In turn, that’s kept consumption 
growth robust. November’s labor market data suggest continued momentum, although math is 
math, and, at some point, job gains must eventually slow as the labor market tightens further. 
Over time, then, I’d expect the employment rate to edge up, in part, as the tight market draws in 
more workers, boosting labor force participation even as job growth slows. 
I appreciated the Tealbook box on potential data issues that might be contributing to an 
upward bias to measured unemployment growth. Certainly, the authors there have highlighted 
some upside risk to the unemployment rate, and we should continue to monitor those closely. 
I’d note that that pickup in residential investment that’s been occurring is also 
encouraging for the growth outlook, and the sharp jump in starts and permits in recent months 
bodes well for the future. In addition, that turnaround in residential investment, which is one of 
the most interest-sensitive sectors of the economy, is a reassuring sign for the continued 
effectiveness of monetary policy, even acknowledging that housing is a materially less 
significant element of the economy than it was during my youth in the Coolidge Administration. 
[Laughter] 

And then, Mr. Chair, I was going to conclude with some remarks on inflation. I was 
going to drag in the Dallas trimmed-mean inflation rate, et cetera, but I think, really, I should 
simply note that I was vibrating with joy during President Bostic’s discussion of inflation, with 
every word of which I concur. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. It’s always tough to follow Governor Quarles. 
[Laughter] Regarding the local economy, growth continues in the Ninth District. I’d 
characterize it as modest: Consumer spending appears to be holding up relatively well; low 
interest rates, as others have noted, are benefiting construction and real estate; permits for 
residential construction are up sharply year-on-year in and around the Twin Cities; but 
manufacturing is flat to declining, and agriculture continues to be especially weak. 
The employment situation in the local economy is mostly solid, with a few signs of 
weaknesses. Half of the firms that we surveyed are planning to add to head count. About 
60 percent of those firms reported wage growth below 30 percent. The downside is that the 
unemployment rate has ticked up in Minnesota. It’s inconsistent with the anecdotes that I’m 
hearing from businesses, but when you look at other states in our region, it has also ticked up, 
which suggests to me it may actually be some signal and not just noise, so we’re watching it 
carefully. 
On the national economy, not much has changed since our previous meeting. As I said, 
consumption is still holding up. It seems to have slowed somewhat. Ongoing weak business 
investment and residential investment are doing well in response to our monetary policy. And 
then the weak global economy and trade tensions remain the key threat to the expansion. 

For inflation, 10 years into the expansion, inflation remains below target, with core PCE 
inflation at around 1.6 percent on a 12-month basis. Survey measures of expectations remain at 
or near record lows. Market-based measures also remain low and, at face value, point to future 
inflation below 2 percent. And, finally, probabilities based on option prices continue to indicate 
risk of low inflation much more than high inflation. 
Regarding the labor market, the health of the national labor market is somewhat hard to 
read. The latest payroll numbers were positive and continue to indicate strong growth, 
suggesting that there may still be more workers out there. However, the ADP numbers suggest a 
slowdown, and, like others, I thought the Tealbook box was very interesting and worth paying 
attention to. 
To me, the job creation numbers are a useful gauge of momentum in the economy. But, 
ultimately, for estimating slack, I continue to want to focus on wages. Real wage growth has 
risen since around 2012, but even now, real wages are growing roughly on par with labor 
productivity growth. Nominal wage growth is 3 to 3½ percent. Inflation is 1½ to 2 percent. 
Therefore, real wage growth is around 1½ percent, which is consistent with productivity growth. 
And real wage growth seems to have stagnated somewhat recently. So, overall, I don’t see any 
evidence that the tight labor market is putting upward pressure on inflation. 
I will close with a quick anecdote. I was recently in northwestern Wisconsin. Charlie 
and I split Wisconsin—northwestern Wisconsin is part of the Minneapolis District. And, as part 
of my outreach, I visited the headquarters of a company called Quick Trip, which is a 
convenience store and gas station company throughout the Midwest. It’s expanding pretty 
rapidly. It’s considered to be a premium among gas stations and convenience stores—
[laughter]—better quality produce. People tell me this. I’ll give you an example. When my 

wife and I drove to Chicago in August, we took our baby daughter, and my wife asked her 
colleagues, “Any advice? We have a newborn. We’re going on a road trip.” All of her 
colleagues said, “Make sure you change the baby in Quick Trips. They’ve got the best 
bathrooms.” [Laughter] 
So we visited Quick Trip. They are also known to be a premium employer, meaning they 
pay higher wages and offer benefits, so I asked them, “How is hiring going?” They said that last 
year, in the past 12 months, they hired 4,000 people across all their stores. I said, “How many 
applicants did you have?” They said, “We had 100,000.” I said, “There is your labor shortage.” 
And the truth is, they pay more, and workers respond to wages. Now, I don’t think those 
100,000 applicants were all off the sidelines. Most of them were probably employed somewhere 
else. But that’s another data point that we should focus on—wage growth—if we want to assess 
if we’re really at maximum employment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Although it may sound clichéd, the 
economy is in a good place. Despite weakness in manufacturing and ongoing uncertainty 
surrounding trade policy, labor market conditions have remained vibrant, with robust payroll 
gains, low unemployment, and a strong recovery in the employment-to-population ratio. 
Consumer spending continues to be healthy, supported by the strong economy and favorable 
financial conditions. And the housing market appears to be responding to lower mortgage rates. 
I expect real GDP growth will average near its potential rate over the second half of this year and 
next year, consistent with that forecast. I see the unemployment rate remaining roughly where it 
currently stands over the next year or two. 

The strong labor market should provide some upward pressure on inflation and assist us 
in reaching our symmetric 2 percent goal on a sustained basis. I won’t go into all of the details, 
but you can find them under SEP participant number five, if you’re having trouble sleeping. 
[Laughter] 
That’s my forecast. But, of course, forecasts rarely come true. In that regard, like many 
others who mentioned this, I found the two boxes in the Tealbook—one on the potential fragility 
in the labor market and the other on the tug of war between strong consumption and weak 
investment—extremely useful. So, like President Daly, Governor Quarles, and President 
Kashkari, in my remarks, I am going to highlight some aspects of the first box. 
The analysis presented in the Tealbook alternative view on a possible significant 
overstatement of employment growth since 2018 points to a potential fragility of the labor 
market. If, as the preliminary estimate indicated, the upcoming BLS benchmark revision shows 
more subdued employment gains in reported current data, this would be another signal that the 
economy may be somewhat more vulnerable to an adverse shock than we think. 
On the inflation front, the latest readings on PCE inflation have been somewhat 
disappointing, and inflation continues to be stubbornly below our target. Measures of inflation 
expectations remain low, and so the risk remains. Expectations could be coming anchored at a 
level below our longer-run objective. Exhibit number one, in the case of missing inflation, is the 
absence of significant wage pressures despite the unemployment rate being at or below 
4 percent, which is my estimate of u*, for 21 straight months. This calls into question whether 
labor markets are in fact as tight as traditional measures of the unemployment gap suggest, a 
point President Kashkari has made numerous times in the past. 

And I think this gets to some of the language we use. I think saying “The labor market is 
strong” is accurate. Whether labor markets are tight without wage growth, that’s—having 
upward pressure on inflation, I think, is—I guess I prefer to use “strong” rather than labor 
markets are “tight,” given what we’re seeing in wages. The staff at the New York Fed and others 
have been exploring this issue and are in the process of developing some alternative measures of 
labor market slack, and this picks up on a theme that President Kaplan mentioned. 
Based on preliminary findings, this research suggests there may be other margins of labor 
supply that standard measures do not properly account for. Specifically, an additional pool of 
labor could come from currently employed workers who are not satisfied with their current job—
may not be in a good match—and therefore they are easy to poach, or from those who would like 
to work longer hours than they can get from their current employer. These people are counted as 
employed, so they are part of the employment number and not unemployment, but they represent 
maybe a hidden measure of additional supply in the labor market. So more to come on this 
research as it develops further. 
In any case, my working assumption is that the current, very low level of the 
unemployment rate of 3½ percent is consistent with the achievement of both of our dual-mandate 
objectives, and we should aim to keep labor market conditions very strong. So if you were to ask 
me what my working definition of maximum employment is, I think the evidence would argue 
that, at least for the next few years, 3½ percent is the right answer to that, even though my long-
run view—and this gets back to the memo and the discussion we had—of the unemployment rate 
is, I’m at 4 percent. But I think that, given various disinflationary forces, a 3½ percent 
unemployment rate is most consistent with our dual-mandate objective based on where we stand 
now. 

A final area of concern in my mind has to do with the number of vulnerabilities in the 
global outlook. Not to belabor the point, but we have seen a monotonic sequence of downgrades 
to global growth. We shouldn’t lose track of that. I hope this will be the end of that, and that 
we’ll see some good news on that front. But I think, again, in the context of a global low r* and 
policy rates uncomfortably close to the ELB or actually negative in parts of the world, this is an 
area of risk that I’m still focused on. 
I’m going to close with a few remarks on some unfinished business related to the 
implementation of the ample-reserves framework. Like Governor Brainard, I am going to make 
much the same points and, obviously, picking up on Lorie’s remarks. Much of our attention now 
is focused on the year-end dynamics in money markets, but we also need to look ahead and plan 
for the transition to the steady-state ample-reserves regime, which we hope to reach in the second 
quarter of next year. 
As Lorie mentioned, part of the transition includes continuing to conduct repos early next 
year in support of making sure that we have ample reserves available to the market. But, as we 
build up the underlying level of reserves through bills purchases and move away from the regular 
provision of reserves through repos, we will need, as a Committee, to address several issues. 
First, which has already been brought up, is the appropriate role of repos, either in terms of a 
standing facility or other approaches as a backstop in an ample-reserves regime. This question 
ties closely to the degree of ampleness in reserves and thinking about the tradeoffs involved 
there. 
The second is the ultimate composition of our portfolio and, specifically, the composition 
of our Treasury purchases as we shift to the organic growth of our balance sheet. This is a topic 

that we discussed a lot, but, actually, we’re going to be needing to think about us coming to a 
decision on that sometime next year. 
And the third is the appropriate setting of administered rates, which Lorie talked about, 
relative to the target range in a well-operating ample-reserves regime. 
Finally, the fourth question is the perennial question of, what’s the best choice of a policy 
rate? Again, this is a topic we have discussed many times and left for future discussion. But I 
think the future is coming up on us—specifically, in the first half of next year. 
To me, as we revisit all of these issues, an important part of it is that the experience of the 
past three months, along with what we’re going to learn over the next few months, adds 
importantly to our understanding of the tradeoffs related to these issues. None of these issues 
require immediate consideration, but the earlier we can provide clarity and specificity around our 
plans in the first half of next year, I think the better for likely outcomes. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. And thanks, everyone, for your comments. So it has 
been an interesting and challenging year, with growth slowing over the year to a moderate pace, 
with crosscurrents from a weakening global economy and trade developments, and with inflation 
running below target. There have been sharp swings in risk appetite in financial markets, driven 
largely by trade developments. Through all of that, the economy has been resilient, led by a 
strong household sector, and the outlook remains favorable. Aside from a softening inflation 
picture, the outlook has changed only modestly over the year. 
Today both the economy and the monetary policy are, yes, in a place that is good. As for 
the risks we’ve been monitoring, tariffs and trade policy uncertainty have been weighing on the 
economy since mid-2018. As was the case in early May and then again in July, it appears that 

the ongoing negotiations with China may be nearing a point of agreement, and I would echo 
many around the table that I think we should all be from Missouri on this one at this point. 
Meanwhile, there are potential new trade war fronts with Argentina, Brazil, and France. 
And while these are not perhaps large enough to have a significant effect on our economy at this 
time, they set a tone of agitation and uncertainty. To say this constructively, it may take some 
time for business confidence to fully recover in such an environment. 
There are also tentative signs, as Steve Kamin pointed out, that global growth may be 
stabilizing, at least in China and the EU. The risk of a hard Brexit appears to have declined, but 
risks have probably increased in Hong Kong. Regarding the economy, the staff have marked up 
their second-half forecasts for GDP, and the forecast now has GDP growth for the year at 
2.2 percent, a bit above trend. That sounds about right to me. 
Household spending continues at a solid pace, propelled by a strong job market and solid 
consumer confidence. The pickup in housing activity is gaining traction, but manufacturing is 
still in a recession, even excluding the effects of the GM strike, and business investment and 
exports remain weak. 
With the unemployment rate at 3½ percent, prime-age labor force participation on the 
rise, and payrolls running at 200,000 a month, the labor market is strong. We have long 
expected some slowing in labor market gains, partly because we didn’t think that the labor force 
participation would continue to outperform our estimates of trend, but it has. And with prime-
age participation still below pre-recession levels, further gains are certainly possible. 
The labor market is still not as tight as it was in the late 1990s, comparing unemployment 
to natural rate estimates or participation to trend. Growth in overall average hourly earnings or 
the employment compensation index has slowed, though wage gains for production in 

nonsupervisory workers have been strengthening. As Glenn pointed out earlier, increases in 
labor force participation have not come at the expense of formal schooling. Employment and on-
the-job training can have long-lasting positive effects on workers’ careers and can provide the 
savings needed to go back to school. 
With regard to inflation, core PCE inflation ran at 2 percent overall for 2018, but we now 
forecast an increase of only 1.6 percent for 2019, and that actually includes the inflation effects 
of tariffs of a couple of tenths. Inflation expectations from household surveys are low, 
breakevens are low too, and there is a rising risk that inflation will fail to reach, let alone move 
beyond, 2 percent even during this long expansion. With disinflationary pressures evident 
around the world, we do not want to see our inflation expectations sliding down inexorably, as 
they did in Japan and are now doing in Europe. In the near term, that means conducting policy 
in a way that sustains the expansion and provides upward thrust to demand and, thus, inflation. 
We are now in year 11 of this expansion, and the remarkable ongoing strength in the 
labor markets amid tepid inflation shows that our real-time estimates of maximum employment 
are highly uncertain. Although unemployment has run below our real-time estimates of u* for 
three years now, I see nothing in the labor market data that raises serious concerns about 
sustainability. The case for humility about our ability to identify the precise level of maximum 
employment in real time is overpowering. 
Turning to policy, I see it as appropriate to stand pat at this meeting. I have written down 
a flat path to 2020. I have also written down a mild overshoot of inflation in 2022 under 
appropriate policy, and I notice that some others did as well. And if we do leave rates unchanged 
tomorrow, as seems highly likely, I plan to emphasize the following in the press conference: We 
believe the current stance of monetary policy is appropriate and will remain so as long as 

incoming information about the economy remains broadly consistent with our outlook. Of 
course, if developments emerge that cause a material reassessment of our outlook, we would 
respond accordingly. Policy is not on a preset course. 
I’m also going to note that we have been purchasing T-bills and conducting repurchase 
operations consistent with the plan announced in October. I will describe those operations as 
technical, aimed at maintaining an ample level of reserves and addressing money market 
pressures that could adversely affect the implementation of monetary policy. 
I want to touch on one other point, and that is both for the purpose of the minutes and 
also in case it comes up in the meeting. I’d like to say that we’re just beginning the process of 
considering changes to the Statement of Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy. I 
expect those discussions will continue well into the new year, and our focus in upcoming 
meetings should be appropriately on potential changes to that document. We’re going to move 
through that process patiently and carefully—and give it the time and focus that it requires. With 
that being the case, it didn’t seem appropriate to divert from that process to vote again on the 
existing document. There is no intended signal here. In the meantime, I think we are making 
good progress on the review, and I continue to expect that we will wrap it up by midyear. 
Thank you very much. I look forward to everyone’s views on policy tomorrow. And, as 
always, we will shortly have cocktails and then dinner in the elegant West Court Café. Sorry. 
[Laughter] I see that it’s actually 4:30, not 5:30. Why don’t we go ahead and start with Thomas 
for monetary policy. 
MR. LAUBACH.
6 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I’ll be referring to the handout labeled 
“Material for the Briefing on Monetary Policy Alternatives.” 
Since the beginning of this year, you have significantly adjusted the stance of 
monetary policy through changes in communications and in the target range for the 
 
6 The materials used by Mr. Laubach are appended to this transcript (appendix 6). 

federal funds rate. In the aftermath of these adjustments, key questions for your 
discussion at this meeting include what signals you want to send about your level of 
comfort with the current policy stance for the period ahead and about your 
willingness to make adjustments to the policy stance in response to unforeseen 
developments. 
The dashed blue line in the upper-left panel shows that, at the time of your June 
meeting, market participants expected substantial near-term policy easing. By 
contrast, a straight read of OIS quotes at this point, the solid blue line, suggests that 
policy is now widely expected to remain unchanged for the foreseeable future; the 
remaining slight downward tilt may well reflect negative term premiums. This 
interpretation is consistent with the flat modal path of the policy rate given by the 
median Desk survey respondent. 
The upper-right panel shows that the flattening of the expected policy rate path 
has been accompanied by a reduction in near-term policy uncertainty. The red line in 
the panel shows the width of the 90 percent confidence interval for the federal funds 
rate four months ahead derived from Eurodollar futures options. By this measure, 
policy uncertainty was quite low during the early months of this year, when you 
communicated that you would be patient in determining what future policy 
adjustments may be appropriate. Following the flare-up in trade uncertainty in early 
May, the width of the confidence interval more than doubled over the weeks before 
your June meeting. Since early October, investors seem to have had increasing 
conviction that one further adjustment at the October meeting would be sufficient to 
sustain a positive economic outlook, and this measure of monetary policy uncertainty 
has now returned to levels observed in the early months of this year. Overall, market 
expectations regarding the path of the federal funds rate appear well aligned with a 
message that policy is in a good place, and that modest data surprises would be 
unlikely to lead to a rate change in the near future. 
Despite apparently high conviction about no near-term change in the federal funds 
rate, the probability distributions for the federal funds rate based on options quotes at 
longer horizons remain more dispersed than they were earlier in the year, as 
illustrated by the blue line in the upper right. Apparently, market participants still see 
a substantial likelihood of events that could trigger further rate cuts or, less likely, a 
reversal of earlier policy easing as next year progresses. 
As Lorie mentioned, the Desk surveys included a special question asking 
respondents to describe scenarios that could lead the federal funds rate at the end of 
2020 to be lower than, unchanged from, or higher than what they expected it to be at 
the end of this year. As summarized in the middle-left panel, the scenarios 
highlighted in the survey responses as likely to give rise to further easing were tepid 
or slowing growth, followed by low inflation, slower hiring, and trade-related 
developments. With regard to possible future tightening actions, the Desk 
respondents suggested that these may result from favorable resolution of the trade 
disputes or from inflation moving above your objective. 

Arguably, your adjustments at recent meetings to the federal funds rate and the 
resulting easing in financial conditions should have improved the prospects for a 
sustained return of inflation to your symmetric 2 percent objective. The middle-right 
panel compares the real federal funds rate with the range of estimates of the longer-
run neutral real interest rate that we regularly present in the Tealbook. The most 
recent observation on the real rate is given by the red diamond. By the end of 2018, 
the real federal funds rate got close to the average estimate of the longer-run neutral 
rate. With your policy adjustments this year, the current real federal funds rate lies a 
bit below the range of these estimates, suggesting that the current stance of policy is 
likely accommodative—a situation you might judge to be appropriate in light of 
global developments, trade-related uncertainties, and muted inflation pressures. 
The lower-left panel shows several market-based measures of far-forward 
inflation expectations that I presented in October as well as the Michigan longer-run 
inflation expectations measure. All measures of inflation expectations have been 
recording values near recent years’ lows. Notably, the estimates of inflation 
expectations derived from the term structure models, the red and green lines, have so 
far not retraced their roughly 25 basis point decline earlier in the year. 
With regard to your decision tomorrow, the three alternative policy statements 
maintain the present target range for the federal funds rate. However, as discussed in 
the lower right, they differ from one another with regard to the likely subsequent 
course of monetary policy. 
Under alternative B, the Committee would affirm that the current stance of policy 
is appropriate for supporting a favorable economic outlook. The draft omits previous 
statements’ explicit reference to uncertainties about the outlook. However, it 
indicates that the Committee, in setting policy, will continue to monitor the 
implications for the outlook of “global developments and muted inflation pressures,” 
which remain important factors shaping the outlook. Retaining this reference 
maintains continuity with previous communications. 
Alternative A expresses some uncertainty about whether the present stance of 
monetary policy will prove sufficiently accommodative to foster a timely and 
sustained return of inflation to 2 percent. It maintains the previous language 
indicating that uncertainties about the outlook remain, and it specifically highlights 
the risk that inflation will stay below 2 percent longer than expected. Alternative A, 
therefore, hints at the possibility of further easing before long. 
Alternative C is included for the purpose of contingency planning rather than as 
candidate statement language for the current meeting. Consequently, it has no 
opening paragraph describing recent data. As well as deleting the previous language 
indicating that “uncertainties about this outlook remain,” alternative C offers 
language that could be appropriate for a situation in which the case for some 
reduction in the degree of monetary accommodation has materially strengthened, so a 
rate hike is likely imminent. 

Thank you, Chair Powell. That completes my prepared remarks. Pages 2 to 7 of 
the handout present the October statement and the draft alternatives and draft 
implementation note. I’ll be happy to take questions. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thanks. Questions for Thomas? Tom. 
MR. BARKIN. Yes. In alternative B, the phrase “including global developments and 
muted inflation pressures,” when you put that into that sentence, how do you think markets are 
going to take that? I read it as signaling some directionality, but you might tell me, “No, it 
doesn’t at all.” I’d just be curious about how you think markets are going to take that. 
MR. LAUBACH. I can tell you how I think markets will take it—obviously, I’m not a 
perfect mind reader. I think it’s embedded now in the sentence that focuses on monitoring. And, 
therefore, I would expect that it’s interpreted as threading the needle between signaling 
continued attention to factors that, arguably, haven’t disappeared overnight without going so far 
as providing a strong downside “tilt.” 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you. Thomas, in your “Federal Funds Rate and r*” chart, 
that’s obviously a long-run r*, because if you look at this chart at face value, it suggests there’s 
no ELB constraint. When I look at it, it suggests that in the wake of the Great Recession, 
monetary policy was never constrained, because the real federal funds rate was below r*. Now, 
this is a long-run r* rather than a short-run r*. So how do you think about long-run versus short-
run r* in assessing policy today? 
MR. LAUBACH. I don’t think that you can conclude on the basis of this chart that 
monetary policy was never constrained. That is a question of, if the effective lower bound didn’t 
exist, how deeply negative would you have wanted to drive the real rate? So, from merely the 
observation that the real rate ran below this r* estimate, I don’t think you can quite conclude that 
the lower bound wasn’t ever a constraint. 

MR. KASHKARI. Well, I believe the lower bound was a constraint. So when I interpret 
this, I look at this and say, “This is an estimate of long-run r* versus short-run r*.” When I look 
at this and I say, “Well, okay, long-run r* in 2010 may have been around 1 percent, but short-run 
r* was probably deeply negative, so monetary policy was constrained”—maybe you disagree 
with that interpretation. If you do, I’d like to know that. But if you don’t, I’d like to know how 
you think about the current stance of policy relative to short-run r*. 
MR. LAUBACH. So it’s true that when you—so the estimates of short-run r* that I’ve 
seen are substantially more volatile and, of course, go, in fact, negative in the post-crisis period. 
That’s right. The red line here, just to be clear, is simply the actual real rate, not a short-run 
equilibrium concept. So what this is showing is that monetary policy was accommodative, 
except that you may have wished to be able to provide even more accommodation. I think I find 
it instructive to see where actual monetary policy is relative to some longer-run measure as a 
measure of how accommodative policy is. 
MR. KASHKARI. But if policy is above some concept of short-run r*, I guess I’d 
quibble with the notion that policy is, therefore, accommodative just because it’s less than long-
run r*. I look at this chart, and I say, “I don’t know if monetary policy today is accommodative 
or not.” John? 
MR. WILLIAMS. “What does the word ‘accommodative’ mean?” is really what you’re 
asking, and I think that’s, you know—I don’t know if we have a perfect answer to what that 
means. In a lot of our models, optimal policy—the perfect setting of monetary policy might be 
to be tracking short-run r*. So is that accommodative monetary policy or not? I mean, in a way, 
monetary policy is adding stimulus relative to a more neutral long-run state and is helping the 
economy be strong. 

I think that it’s hard to actually know what the word “accommodative” means, whether 
it’s a short-run r* concept. So I think the idea is, you know—I think Thomas’s answer was, we 
were constrained in how much stimulus we could provide through negative short-term real rates 
at that time. I think, still, monetary policy was helping, was moving in the right direction, but 
was constrained by how much it could do—the stimulus it could provide. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Isn’t it sort of the direct response? I mean, it’s not on here what the 
current estimate of the equilibrium federal funds rate is. This is just the current real funds rate, 
right? The equilibrium federal funds rate? The real version of that would be the direct response 
to whether this is lower than that. That would be saying it is accommodative. I assume that’s 
true. 
MR. LAUBACH. We could convert this chart into nominal space, except that we would 
have to make, then, some assumption about where long-run expected inflation is. That’s how 
you would convert the chart into nominal space. But I would think that the result wouldn’t be all 
that different. I mean, right now, this is, depending on which measure you choose here—but if 
you just looked at the difference to the mean, you have about 75 basis points. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard, I think. 
MR. EVANS. Well, I’m in the queue. 
CHAIR POWELL. You’re in the queue. Good. [Laughter] President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have more questions about r* here. Is this a 
domestic calculation, or is it a global calculation? I think if you average across Europe, Japan, 
and the United States, you’re going to get a lower real interest rate, and we’re going to look not 
so accommodative in that scenario. 

MR. LAUBACH. These are all measures based on U.S. data. These are not global 
measures. That said, to the extent that foreign developments, including low foreign r*, are 
having a restraining effect on the U.S. economy, that would show through in reducing these 
estimates for the U.S. economy. 
CHAIR POWELL. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. But, conceptually, I think the difference between short-run r* and 
long-run r* is very compelling. I think about it a lot, but my recollection is, the models are not 
very good at parsing that difference. So, what we’re looking at here is probably some 
combination of those things. There’s no great econometric way to distinguish those things, is my 
recollection. 
MR. LAUBACH. I would, perhaps, put it slightly differently. I would say that the short-
run estimates that I’m familiar with tend to be much more dependent on very specific aspects of 
model specification. Typically, you buy a lot more into model structure. One advantage of these 
estimates here is that they typically work with relatively robust, well-established specifications 
that are not super highly parameterized. And I personally take some comfort from the fact that, 
qualitatively, they really show a very common pattern, which is, you had sort of a downward 
trend coming up to the crisis. You had a noticeable step-down, and that really hasn’t reversed in 
most of these measures. So I think that feature is pretty robust across these seven different 
specifications. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. I wanted to follow up—just not to let it go on President Barkin’s 
question. And Thomas has already heard this from me and from us. Just to build on—I had 
thought, in my mind, leading up to this meeting, the narrative was that in light of global 

developments and muted inflation, we lowered the federal funds rate three times to address those 
issues. And we sort of said the narrative is, we think we’ve done enough to address that. So 
then, when I saw this language back, I thought, “Hmm.” I think it’s already a powerful 
statement to say we’re monitoring incoming developments without singling out the two issues 
that we used before as a justification for why to lower more. 
Now, when I saw the SEP, I thought, “This probably isn’t going to be a big deal, because 
it’s so clear. Everybody is at nothing, so maybe it doesn’t matter.” But, all things being equal, I 
would have probably preferred not to see this language back in. 
CHAIR POWELL. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Yes. Paragraph 2 has two references to uncertainty. It first 
says that, in light of implications—I mean, the previous. So, first of all, we had the implications 
of global developments and muted inflationary pressures, which we’re trying to address or 
manage. And then we said “uncertainties about this outlook remain.” So we had two elements: 
We’re trying to manage that, but we’re dealing with uncertainty. 
So I think that taking both of those out, because we’re taking the latter out completely, 
and basically saying all of those issues that we’ve been trying to address and do risk management 
are gone would be a very strong—pretty much, it would sound as if we’re done, and we’re not 
concerned or worried about any of these issues anymore. I think by taking out the two and 
putting in one, it’s saying we think policy is in the right place. It’s a good place. That said, 
some of these issues, like trade uncertainty and muted inflation pressures, are still in the 
background and so are clearly concerns as we go into the future years. That’s the way I thought. 
MR. CLARIDA. Me, too. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Evans. 

MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. You know, maybe the answer to my question is 
related to Neel’s question about whether it’s accommodative. 
Thomas, I was surprised by the discrepancy between alternative B and the rationale for 
alternative B in the write-up. The Tealbook’s case for alternative B makes the argument that the 
current stance of policy is appropriate to support a sustained return of inflation to 2 percent. I 
agree with that. Yet the second paragraph of alt-B says “The Committee judges that the current 
stance of monetary policy is appropriate to support sustained expansion of economic activity, 
strong labor market conditions, and inflation near the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent 
objective”—full stop. I mean, this could easily make people think we’re happy with where 
inflation is. If the case for alt-B supports a sustained return to 2 percent inflation, why not just 
have that in the language and say “return to 2 percent”? That way, we can avoid the risk of 
markets and the public thinking that we believe the current level of inflation is consistent with 
our objective. 
On Neel’s question—is policy accommodative? Well, if it’s accommodative, I would 
think it would get us up to what we’ve always said our inflation objective is, 2 percent. If it’s 
only near and below, then maybe it’s not really as accommodative. 
MR. LAUBACH. One possible response to that could be to point to the SEP, where you 
do see an increase in inflation. That is arguably not sending the message that 1.6 percent forever 
is just good enough, in your view. 
I think that, right now—and that goes back to the discussion about the language we just 
had—the statement tries to focus on, the current stance of monetary policy is appropriate to 
support good outcomes. It tries to send a clear message that, for now, you want to watch what 
the additional accommodation that you’ve put in place is going to do. And I would think that if 

you changed this language here—which, as you know, has been in the statement for quite some 
time—that might send a pretty powerful signal that might be at odds with the claim that policy is 
appropriate. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Just one more comment on the language in paragraph 2. The 
continuity is actually the problem, right? Because the language that you’re using here is the 
same language that we used each time we decided to ease. And so there are two sentences, one 
that was taken out and one that was moved down. And I view the “are the most likely outcomes, 
but uncertainties about this outlook remain” as kind of a plain-vanilla concern that we can’t be 
sure we’re going to hit our 2 percent inflation target. We’re being so specific about including 
“global developments and muted inflation pressures,” which was the exact same—not the exact 
same language, but very similar to the language we used, and only used, when we were actually 
easing. 
So in answer to the first question, at least when I first read this, I read this as being very 
“dovish.” Now, that may not be the intent, and that may not be the way the markets interpret it, 
but if I were to pick between those two clauses, I would have kept the one that was crossed out 
and taken out the one that is red. But you may interpret it differently in terms of how the 
markets would see it. 
MR. LAUBACH. I don’t know— 
MS. LOGAN. In the information we received from the surveys and in our conversations 
with market participants, there was very little expectation of changes to the statement. So the 
statement changes, I think, that they expected were only things that were really necessary to 

make its timing current. There was some modest expectation of a material reassessment to be 
put in the statement. But not a lot of other change was expected. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Yes. I was going to “pile on” the last sentence of that second paragraph 
as well. To me, I understand that we don’t want to change too much, given where we are, but the 
difference between the content in that last sentence and the content in paragraph 3 seems to me 
to be extremely small. So, at some point, I will make a plea to just drop that sentence altogether, 
because I don’t think it adds very much information, in terms of what’s driving our 
decisionmaking. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Sorry, but I guess we have time before drinks, so I’ll say a few things. 
[Laughter] I think, in the press conference after the previous meeting, you made a comment that, 
as you and I’ve talked about, got picked up, which basically suggested the bar for future action 
might be higher even than people might have thought. I didn’t think it was inappropriate 
necessarily, but I noticed—one of the things that’s worrying me a little bit is, we’re starting to 
see, since that October meeting, a pretty healthy price-earnings ratio (P/E) expansion in the 
United States. Although triple-C rated bond spreads have gapped out, credit spreads for more 
highly-rated debt are very tight. I don’t think it’s the end of the world, but it sort of gives you a 
little bit of information. I’m a little nervous that markets are running away from us a little bit—it 
starts to cause me to remember, I guess it was 2017, when we had a good 12 to 18 months like 
this, with no corrections, and, ultimately, we started to get nervous about excesses and 
imbalances building, et cetera. So I don’t know that that means anything, but I just thought, you 

know, we have time—I’m about to have a stiff drink. [Laughter] That’s a concern I have about 
the aftermath of the previous meeting. 
MR. CLARIDA. I do think, though, that at a meeting at which core PCE inflation is 
running at 1.6 percent, if we drop “muted inflation,” it’s—but we’ve had “muted inflation,” 
which certainly predates July. Thomas, remind me: Didn’t we have “muted inflation,” earlier 
this year? So I do think that, with core inflation at 1.6 percent, if we drop “muted,” it’s going to 
be very tough to explain what “muted” ever meant. There may come a time when core PCE 
inflation is at 2 percent or above and we can think about it, but I would be very nervous about 
eliminating that from the statement. 
MR. LAUBACH. Unfortunately, I don’t have at my fingertips when, exactly, “muted 
inflation pressures” was introduced into the statement, but it seems—the 12-month rate of core 
inflation has rarely been below 1.6 percent, if I recall correctly. In any case, core inflation is not 
any more encouraging than it has been at any other point. 
MR. CLARIDA. Right. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Largely, I’d just like to follow up on Governor Clarida’s and Vice Chair 
Williams’s remarks. I mean, the “muted inflation pressures”—we were talking this morning 
about, how can we convince the public that we care about inflation below 2 percent? And this is 
one way to talk to the public—that we expect inflation to come back up to our target, but we will 
be watching for that to occur. That’s the spirit in which I read it—that we want to have our eye 
on things. And sometimes it’s helpful to point out to the public about what we are having our 
eye on, especially when there is a perception that 2 percent is a ceiling as opposed to a 
symmetric target. 

CHAIR POWELL. Let me just say, obviously, there were people on both sides of this 
issue. I think the risk of us being seen as suddenly “dovish” again at this meeting is basically 
zero, unless it can go negative. We’re saying material—we’ve set up a stand of materiality, 
which we didn’t have to do, about further cuts. So, honestly, we went around and around on this, 
too, but it splits the Committee right down the middle. I promise to think about it again 
overnight, but you should think, though, that there are views all over the place on this. It’s quite 
evenly split, if that. Governor Brainard. 
MS. BRAINARD. I just wanted to come back to a point that I think President Evans was 
raising. You have changed that sentence in paragraph 2 so that, before, we were supporting a set 
of things, but now we’re saying policy is appropriate. I wouldn’t feel policy was appropriate if 
we were just “near” our symmetric inflation target, so you might want to look at that word. It’s a 
little different in this—I like the sentence. I like these changes that you’re making. But I 
wonder: Are we really happy to have inflation “near the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent 
objective,” or should we be saying “appropriate to support . . . inflation moving to”? I mean, you 
might just want to think about that. I don’t have strong feelings. 
MR. LAUBACH. All right. So my recollection is that this outlook sentence was 
introduced, I believe, sometime early this year, and I don’t believe that the “near” was ever 
intended to have a one-sided meaning. I think the “near” was intended to convey something 
about a limited ability to perfectly control the outcome, right? So I think it was more intended 
as, it could be 1.9 percent or it could be 2.1 percent—that there is a limited ability. Because I 
remember that there was discussion of whether it should be “near” or “at,” and I think the “at” 
left a little bit too much of a sense of precision. That’s my recollection of the occasion when that 
language was originally discussed. But it certainly was never intended to be one-sided. 

MS. BRAINARD. So I agree, but you could use “centered on,” you could use 
“around”—but “near” does—I mean, I do remember having this conversation. “Near” does 
imply, since we’re approaching it from below and we’ve been below consistently for a long 
time—it does have that quality. 
MR. EVANS. If we ever get inflation above 2 percent just once, we can take greater 
comfort in the strict logic, which I agree with, that Thomas just laid out. But, as we’ve always 
been below, it just seems that a little more thought— 
CHAIR POWELL. I will point out that if I counted correctly, I think seven of us wrote 
down an inflation overshoot under appropriate policy. And I will say that if anyone mentions 
that—the “near” thing. 
MR. EVANS. I mean, it just sounds like—I mean, Thomas’s answer to me, which was 
perfect, was that the SEP has us at 2 percent. And all I’m saying is, then why don’t we—this is a 
forecast—just say “return to 2 percent”? But it’s the history of the statement, how markets are 
going to interpret this, and how that—it seems to me that’s getting believed. 
CHAIR POWELL. Let us take both of these away overnight. We can think about these 
and talk about them. In terms of the last language, I think Thomas characterized it perfectly—it 
was, really, not wanting to be seen as really slamming the door on this. I think we’re in a really 
good place, and I don’t want to mess it up. I thought there was a risk at the time that it would 
come across as saying, “We’re just done with that.” And we’re not, but we’ve separately set up 
a test of materiality that it would have to flow through. But I thought it would send quite a 
“hawkish” signal to take it out. This was an attempt to stay right on the middle line and not 
change people’s thinking. I don’t know that it’ll precisely accomplish that. 

Anyway, are there any more changes? [No response] If not, let’s now adjourn. Thank 
you very much. I look forward to tomorrow morning at 9:00. Thanks. 
 
[Meeting recessed] 

December 11 Session 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Okay. Good morning, everyone. Let’s start with an update from 
Stacey on this morning’s economic data before we go to the go-round. 
MS. TEVLIN.7 Sure. This morning we got the CPI, and you have a handout in case you 
want to follow along. The short description is, there aren’t any big surprises in the CPI data. 
Total CPI prices rose 0.3 percent in November, just a little above our 0.2 percent expectation. 
As you can see, energy prices came in higher than expected, but, given the volatility of that 
series, that’s a pretty small miss. The core CPI rose two-tenths in November, exactly as 
expected, and that brought the 12-month change to 2.3 percent, which is not that different from 
where it stood a year ago. Not shown here on the table is that our quick translation suggests that 
the 12-month change in core PCE prices based on these CPI data will probably remain at 
1.6 percent, as expected. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great, thanks. Any questions for Stacey? [No response] Okay. 
Great, thank you. 
So before we get started on the go-round, I wanted to come back to the second paragraph 
language. I did promise to think about it overnight and, in fact, did—in the middle of the night. 
And I’m inclined to leave it as is, and I’ll give you two reasons. First, inflation is 1.6 percent. I 
think it’s not a great time to be taking that out of the statement for consideration and, in effect, 
saying, “Mission accomplished.” So that’s the first reason. 
The second one is, I think the language in question works fine as part of the guidance that 
we’ve laid out. Again, what we’re saying is that we think the stance of monetary policy is 
appropriate and likely to remain appropriate as long as incoming information about the economy 
 
7 The materials used by Ms. Tevlin are appended to this transcript (appendix 7). 

remains broadly consistent with our favorable outlook, and that we’ll be monitoring the effects 
of our recent policy actions, along with other information bearing on the outlook. If 
developments emerge that cause a material reassessment of our outlook, we would respond 
accordingly. Policy is not on a preset course. That’s what we’re saying. 
All through the year, we’ve been calling out global developments and muted inflation. 
There’s a risk, I think, that eliminating the direct reference to global developments and muted 
inflation could be read as suggesting that these are no longer concerns. But none of these issues 
are actually resolved, and they all are remaining concerns. They are subject to the same sort of 
forward guidance that we’ve given them. I think it may be taken as a bit “dovish,” but I don’t 
think it’s going to be taken as a particularly important aspect of our communications at this 
meeting. So there’s that. 
MR. EVANS. May I ask you a question, Mr. Chair? 
CHAIR POWELL. Sure. 
MR. EVANS. Could you elaborate a little bit more on the first one—that, with inflation 
at 1.6 percent, you’re not ready to declare “Mission accomplished”? I assume that’s about the 
“near 2 percent”? I didn’t interpret it that way. 
CHAIR POWELL. Well, I was referring to the reference to muted inflation pressures in 
the second paragraph. 
MR. EVANS. Oh, okay. 
CHAIR POWELL. To take that out—it seems to me, that has to be in there. And I also 
think that leaving the reference to global developments in there doesn’t take away from the other 
guidance. It essentially amplifies it. So that’s my thinking. 
MR. EVANS. Got it. Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL. And on your suggested change, I have some sympathy for it. I don’t 
want to make that change at this meeting. It’s certainly something we can consider down the 
road. 
So that is my thinking. And with that, let’s begin our go-round, starting with Governor 
Clarida. 
MR. CLARIDA. Thank you, Chair Powell. I support alternative B as written and the 
policy decision to maintain the target range for the funds rate at 1½ to 1¾ percent. 
I note that in the statement, we continue to acknowledge that “measures of inflation 
compensation remain low.” While true, they remain at historically low levels relative to the pre-
crisis experience when we were last in the neighborhood of maximum employment and price 
stability. As I pointed out yesterday in my outlook go-round, the Federal Reserve staff term 
structure models which strip out risk and liquidity premiums, indicate that expected CPI inflation 
five years forward is running at 1.9 percent, which would imply, given the wedge, a PCE 
inflation rate of 1.6 percent, in expectation five years forward. 
We continue in the statement to say that “survey-based measures of . . . inflation 
expectations are little changed.” This is technically correct, but many measures—not all, but the 
Michigan measure, for example—are at historically low levels. This is why I like the staff work 
on the CIE index, which is agnostic but looks at a range of inflation expectation indicators. And 
that CIE index is now at an all-time low level, which again indicates that if it was consistent with 
well-anchored inflation expectations before the crisis, it’s running somewhat below that now. 
I do believe that the current target range for the federal funds rate is somewhat 
accommodative relative to my personal estimate of long-run nominal r* of 2.5 percent, and thus 
that our cumulative 75 basis point adjustment in the rate should be sufficient, under my baseline 

outlook, to provide the policy support needed to offset the global headwinds and muted inflation 
pressures that we refer to. But for this to happen, my view of appropriate monetary policy, as I 
indicated in my SEP submission, will be that the current stance of policy and range for the funds 
rate will need to persist for some time, so markets and individuals can expect that policy will 
remain accommodative until inflation moves up to—and, indeed, in my projections, somewhat 
above—our 2 percent objective. Thank you, Chair Powell. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Rosengren. 
MR. ROSENGREN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. After smoothing through the recent labor 
strikes, it appears that employment remains quite strong, with payroll employment increasing by 
205,000, on average, over the past three months, the unemployment rate returning to 3½ percent 
in November, and the trend in wage inflation up over the past two years. The current Tealbook 
forecast has tight labor markets, growth slightly above potential, and core inflation moving 
within 0.1 percentage points of our inflation target by the end of 2020. In addition, monetary 
policy and fiscal policy remain accommodative, and financial conditions are supportive of the 
economy, as evidenced, for example, by the rising stock prices since our October meeting. 
After three easings in a row and taking into account the fact that monetary policy’s effect 
works with lags, I would prefer to leave rates unchanged unless there’s a substantial change in 
the forecast. Thus, I support the recommendation to maintain the funds rate at its current level at 
this meeting. However, as discussed yesterday, the language in alternative B seems to imply a 
fairly low threshold for additional easing and may tilt markets more strongly toward the 
presumption of easing early next year. 
While I, too, would like to get inflation at or over our 2 percent target, I expect that the 
current level of accommodation will generate that result over time. In my forecast, core PCE 

inflation rises above 2 percent in 2021, as the lower profit margins and increased wage pressures 
brought on by an unemployment rate well below the natural rate cause firms to raise prices 
somewhat more quickly. In a world with a flat Phillips curve, it may be better to stick with 
modest accommodation for an extended period rather than add significant accommodation in the 
hope that inflation will return more smartly to target. A more vigorous approach to returning 
inflation to its target may risk pushing the economy too hard and generating financial imbalances 
that would be inconsistent with maximum employment over the cycle. 
Finally, I’m a bit concerned that any further easing will place us in a precarious position 
whenever the next downturn arrives. With the funds rate at 1⅝ percent and the economy 
performing quite well, I prefer to reserve some policy space for offsetting a recession rather than 
buying additional insurance against events that, so far, have not proven sufficient to derail the 
economic expansion. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bostic. 
MR. BOSTIC. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support the policy decision in alternative B. In 
my view, the economy is on stable footing, and risks are largely balanced. I believe that this was 
the case even before the series of stimulative policy moves the Committee took in the preceding 
meetings. 
Given all of that, I see no need for further stimulus at this time. We should instead take 
stock of the effects of our actions and see how the economy evolves before determining that a 
different stance of policy is needed. And I share President Rosengren’s desire to preserve policy 
space for a time when we actually are going to really need to use it. 

Now, I was going to suggest tweaks to the statement that will accompany this decision. 
But that was covered yesterday, so I will spare you. Today I will just note that I think the 
statement eventually needs to be tightened up. 
And, finally, I’d like to wish everyone a happy, healthy, and safe holiday season. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Evans. 
MR. EVANS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B, although, as I noted in my 
question to Thomas, I do have concerns about the language. 
To start, I agree that policy is in a good place today. I also agree with the rationale that 
the Tealbook presented. Given the current and projected low unemployment rate path and the 
lags in the effects of our recent rate moves, we have the accommodation in place to generate a 
return of inflation to our symmetric 2 percent objective. So I believe that I agree with President 
Rosengren and President Bostic, in terms of, policy is in a good place right now. I don’t see the 
need for additional accommodation at this point. So I like the setting of the federal funds target 
range, but I don’t like the “near 2 percent” language. 
The SEP also shows our return to 2 percent, as Thomas pointed out yesterday. So this is 
more straightforward language to include it that way. I will vote “yes” on the current language, 
so I’m recognizing—that’s the way it is. 
Now, why do I make more of a deal about this than others—1.8 percent versus 2 percent? 
And, you know, I heard President Bostic and others speak quite well. Is it false precision to want 
2.0 percent as opposed to 1.8 percent? We are in a good place—we clearly are. I think an 
unknown is, the language that we use is “current stance of monetary policy.” This is a very 
artful term. The current setting of the federal funds rate target is 1½ to 1¾ percent, but what’s 

the path of the funds rate? We’re not committing to anything like that. The SEPs have that in 
there, but a different path would lead to a different outcome. Would all paths support inflation 
rising to 2 percent? I don’t believe that. And if you start having people wonder about, “Well, 
what are we going to do? Are we going to raise rates sooner than I have in my own SEP that 
requires that to overshoot?” then that could be a concern. So I worry that that facilitates more of 
this uncertainty. 
This isn’t as much about now, either. It really isn’t. It’s more about the next downturn. 
President Bostic said, “We have inflation credibility in terms of our policies in supporting 
inflation. Times are good now, so I think that’s how people think.” I worry about, at the next 
recession, when the unemployment rate goes up—say, to 8 percent—and inflation is lower and 
goes to 1 percent, maybe lower than that, and we hit the effective lower bound, and we start 
doing QE. And QE is unlikely to be generously embraced by everybody—there will be 
criticism, I would expect, of the optics. And there’ll be concern about savers at low interest rates 
and things like that. The Chair is going to get up at some point during that and say, “We are 
providing a lot of accommodation, and we are going to get inflation up. We’re going to get it up 
to 2 percent.” And I think a response could be, “They couldn’t get it up to 2 percent when 
unemployment was at 3½ percent. They were satisfied with 1.8 percent.” 
I think if we think that we have enough accommodation to overshoot, we should support 
that. I really don’t see why it’s such a big deal to sort of say that we would return to 2 percent. 
But, at any rate, that’s why I favor a little more precision, perhaps, in that regard. But that’s my 
view. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 
MR. BULLARD. Mr. Chair, may I just ask a question? 
CHAIR POWELL. President Bullard. 

MR. BULLARD. Thank you. President Evans, what was your suggested language on 
the— 
MR. EVANS. Well, I just think that, in paragraph 2, it says— 
MR. BULLARD. You’re talking about “inflation near.” 
MR. EVANS. —“inflation near the Committee’s symmetric.” And I would say 
“inflation returning to the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent objective.” 
MR. BULLARD. “Returning to.” 
MR. EVANS. Yes. 
MR. BULLARD. Okay. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. President Kaplan. 
MR. KAPLAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B. I believe it is reasonable 
to say the federal funds rate is appropriate in light of my current economic outlook. I would not 
advocate a change in the setting of the federal funds rate unless there is a material change in the 
economic outlook. 
I do believe that technology and technology-enabled disruption—along with, to some 
extent, globalization—are negatively affecting the pricing power of businesses, thereby muting 
inflation outcomes. I expect this trend to continue and maybe even intensify. I’m working with 
my team to further the debate and try to better understand how monetary policy interacts with 
this secular trend. 
Separately, regarding inflation, I would pick up on the comments of President Bostic and, 
I think, President Barkin—and, previously, President Rosengren—about welcoming a further 
discussion about the wisdom of an articulation of an inflation range from 1½ to 2½ percent, with 
a midpoint target of 2 percent over an averaging period. I think this would be an excellent 

discussion, and I hope we would take up this discussion of a range in future meetings in the near 
future. 
Lastly, I am glad that, early in 2020, we will debate again the idea of the standing repo 
facility and discuss in more depth how that facility might interact with the size of continued 
Treasury bill purchases and have a further debate about the appropriate size of the Federal 
Reserve balance sheet. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Harker. 
MR. HARKER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. Monetary 
policy is in a reasonably good place, with an equal likelihood of a future change in the funds rate 
being in either direction. By my reckoning, that is the definition of a good place. A material 
change in circumstances that would induce me to favor a change in the funds rate would require 
a significant departure from trend-like growth in either direction, an appreciable unexpected 
weakening in employment growth, or persuasive evidence that we are departing from our 
inflation target. So, for now, it seems prudent to wait and see how the previous three rate cuts 
play out. 
Lastly, as we start the new year next month, it may be time to take a fresh look at the 
statement and, instead of tweaking a word here or there, really think about maybe refreshing the 
entire statement in the next meeting. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Barkin. 
MR. BARKIN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B, though, as I hinted 
yesterday, I’d prefer moving the reference to global developments and muted inflation pressures 
to the previous sentence. To me, putting in the action statement makes it more directional than 
our previous statement and our recent communications at a time when the outlook today remains 

consistent, in my mind, with the outlook we envisioned at our October meeting. I do appreciate 
the clarity in the statement you read earlier and hope that will avoid this risk. 
In thinking about future policy, I continue to see current monetary policy as 
accommodative. In contrast, I see government policy, in its effect on the broad climate for 
business, as restrictive. The net of those two, I believe, is taking the economy toward roughly 
trend growth. 
It may well happen that caution in the new year has the seasonal effect I described 
yesterday. If so, I would urge us to be patient and give our recent rate moves, explicitly targeted 
at such a scenario, a chance to have their effects. Similarly, while I do forecast some increase in 
inflation in my base case, the potential effect of trade and political uncertainty could slow the 
pace of its return to target, which would not concern me much. As I said last time, I think we 
have to accept that our monetary policy levers have less effect in an environment that includes 
such significant headwinds. 
I do accept, as the Tealbook box suggests, that interest-sensitive consumer spending 
seems to be responding as we’d hope. But I’d align myself with research by Vavra, Bloom, and 
others referenced in those footnotes on the negative effect of high uncertainty on firms and their 
investment spending. 
Now, circumstances could change. The breadth of our 2022 SEP forecast certainly 
suggests that. Our recent rate moves could break through the policy barriers and stimulate 
growth and result in inflation. Some of the major uncertainties like trade could be settled in a 
way that provides positive support for economic growth. In contrast, the election cycle poses 
further risk to business confidence, and there’s no guarantee the news won’t worsen. If these 

circumstances do change materially in either direction, I read our statement as giving us the 
leeway to take appropriate action. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Bullard. 
MR. BULLARD. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Let me start with just a brief comment on 
money market issues. I agree with President Kaplan. I think it’s time to start seriously exploring 
setting up a repo facility to handle money market developments. I hope we can get that going in 
the first quarter of 2020. This would help the Fed meet an international standard about how 
operations are done. I think there’s a lot that could be done there, and I think it would serve us 
well on that particular issue. 
During 2019, this Committee has made considerable progress in changing the outlook for 
U.S. monetary policy, and I want to stress that I think that the amount of accommodation that has 
been provided during 2019 is considerably more than what would be suggested by just the three 
rate cuts that occurred at our previous meetings. Last year, in the November time frame, if you 
look at the two-year Treasury yield, it was trading at or around 3 percent. The two-year Treasury 
yield is often taken as a good approximation of the stance of monetary policy, because it takes 
into consideration not only the current very short-term yields, but also the outlook for FOMC 
policy according to markets. And at that time, we were raising rates, and markets thought we 
were going to raise rates even further during 2019. This morning the two-year Treasury is 
trading to yield 1.61 percent. That’s a large decline, depending on exactly where you measure it 
from—on the order of 130 basis points or more. So you may want to interpret the change in the 
stance of monetary policy over the past year as being something more akin to five rate cuts than 
three rate cuts. 

But I think this is important. This is a substantial change in the policy stance of this 
Committee, and now may be a good time to wait and see what the effects actually turn out to be 
during the fourth quarter of 2019 and into the first half, and even the whole year, of 2020. 
Milton Friedman taught us that there are long and variable lags in the effects of monetary policy, 
and we should be cognizant of that. 
I’m hopeful that our 2019 policy realignment, combined with business decisionmakers 
creating new strategies that are better acclimated to the very persistent trade policy uncertainty of 
the era, will help lead to good macroeconomic results in 2020 and 2021. Nevertheless, we need 
to be watchful and cognizant of the fact that trade policy uncertainty has a larger effect outside 
the United States than inside the United States. So it is entirely possible that global growth will 
not rebound as expected, and that the global drag will continue to feed back to U.S. economic 
performance in 2020 and beyond. 
I see the coming and continuing framework debate in the first half of 2020 as quite 
important for the Committee. I have two comments on issues that were brought up yesterday. 
One is on the measurement of inflation, and two is on having a target range, or “comfort zone,” 
for the inflation target. On the measurement of inflation, this issue, to my knowledge, has not 
been reviewed by this Committee in depth since the 1990s. Some of you—I think only a few 
people—were actually here at the time, but in the 1990s, we had the Boskin Commission. And 
the eventual outcome of the review was that the Boskin Commission said that there was upward 
bias in the CPI. Chairman Greenspan then led the Committee to shift toward PCE inflation as 
the key measure and the focus of the Committee. And core PCE is our most commonly used 
metric in judging how we’re doing on the inflation front. 

I think the bottom line of that review was that PCE inflation provided a broader measure 
of inflation than others. And the strategy implicitly adopted at the time was that the Committee 
should commit to one best measure, sort of an official measure, as opposed to an alternative 
strategy that would have referred to multiple measures and would have done a better job, 
possibly, of acknowledging the uncertainty in the measurement of inflation. So, for better or 
worse, we went ahead and committed to that, we’re living with that today, and we’ve not really 
reviewed that decision from the 1990s. 
But I would stress, with many around the Committee mentioning this and wondering 
about tenths of a percent on inflation—I mean, measurement uncertainty is considerable, and it’s 
very possible that we should do a better job of acknowledging the measurement uncertainty 
that’s out there. So I could see this as being an important part of the framework debate in the 
first half of 2020. 
Another related issue is what to do about core PCE inflation. I’ve argued for a long time 
that focusing on core PCE inflation is indefensible—it’s indefensible to throw out certain 
categories of goods arbitrarily. These are prices that people actually pay, and, worse than that, 
these are the interactions with the markets that people are most familiar with. So, what do they 
do? They go to the grocery store, and they buy gas. And so when they hear us say that we’re 
going to throw out those prices, even though those are the ones that they’re paying, I think this is 
not very good. 
There are much better ways, statistically, to handle the issue of trying to get a sense of the 
trend in inflation or the underlying inflation. The Dallas Fed trimmed mean is one—and I’ve 
often spoken approvingly of that particular measure—but there are many others. So maybe it’s 
time to move into the modern age on this? This is really something that came from the ’70s. It’s 

now approaching 50 years old. Couldn’t we do this better? If you want to hear more about this, 
I gave a speech on this a long time ago called “Measuring Inflation: The Core Is Rotten.” 
[Laughter] That reviews all of these issues in some detail. 
I would say that, overall, we have to have a headline measure of inflation as the target, 
but there is an issue of, well, how do we want to get a sense of the trends in inflation? So that’s 
where the core part comes in. 
On the comfort zone issue or the target range—I hear a lot of people referring to this, 
including President Kaplan just now, and I would welcome a debate on this—I’ll refer people to 
an older speech by former Governor Mishkin, who was on this Committee about a decade ago, 
that had one of the great titles ever of FOMC speeches, “Comfort Zones, Shmumfort Zones.” 
[Laughter] So he came down a little bit negatively on the zone issue. [Laughter] I think the 
main idea that the debate has to center on here is that the zone creates a region of policy inaction. 
So the problem is, if you’re inside the zone, what is the message? Are you going to do anything, 
or are you just going to do nothing at that point? And what can happen is that inflation can 
linger in, let’s say, the lower half or the upper half of the zone because of the inaction element 
of this. 
The second issue, I think, to address is the ECB’s experience. The ECB has a 2 percent 
inflation target, but it’s expressed as “2 percent or less.” That’s because, broadly speaking, 
Germany and others weren’t sure that they could go with 2 percent, and that’s where they ended 
up—2 percent or less. So, in effect, they’ve had a zone, and the zone I would interpret as not 
working very well. They’ve ended up with inflation in the lower part of that zone and ended up 
with the idea that 1 percent inflation was okay, and they’re really struggling with that today and 
have become embroiled at the effective lower bound. The new president, Lagarde, faces a 

considerable challenge on that. So I think if we’re going to go in this direction, we have to be 
very cognizant. And I’d like to hear arguments about what you think about the ECB’s 
experience. 
But most importantly, in my view, naming a zone now that captures the current reading 
on inflation would signal satisfaction with the current level of inflation and inflation 
expectations. So if you said 1½ to 2½ percent today and you say, “Well, core inflation is at 
1.6 percent,” that’s going to say that that’s okay. And I think that that is likely to entrench us at 
low levels in the current environment. So one thing I would say about this is, now may not be 
the time to do this. If you did get to 2 percent and you wanted to acknowledge measurement 
issues, then you could say, “Okay, now we’ve got the zone, and now we intend to be symmetric 
around that zone.” 
All right. Well, I would just gently put out the idea that, to stay away from the effective 
lower bound, we may want something more in the spirit of “close to but higher than 2 percent,” 
which sounds like a radical proposal. But the idea is that we want this buffer to keep us away 
from being enmeshed in the problems of Japan or, now, Europe. So, yes, we want to keep 
inflation low and stable—that notion came from the Volcker era—but we also want this buffer, 
to keep us away from those problems associated with the effective lower bound. So I put that 
out there as something to consider. I look forward to these debates taking place. 
I do support alternative B for today, Mr. Chair. I’m happy to support your judgment on 
the inclusion of the sentence in paragraph 2, including “global developments,” and appreciate 
your arguments on that. I do have a suggestion, though, on the question of, in paragraph 2, 
“inflation near the Committee’s symmetric 2 percent objective.” I was influenced by the 
commentary around the table here yesterday and today. I would support a change here. The 

word “near”—Governor Brainard suggested, I thought, the words “centered on” instead of 
“near” in that part of the statement. You know, I think the “near” does have a little hint that the 
1.6 percent is okay. This is probably not a good time to send that kind of a signal. 
We’ve talked extensively around the Committee about the symmetry of the inflation 
target. I do think we want inflation to be centered on 2 percent, so maybe we should consider 
that today. It’s a small change. I don’t think it would materially change the reception given to 
this particular statement, but it might get away from this tinge of acceptance of 1.6 percent on 
core inflation for 2019. So I’m picking up a little bit on President Evans, who had a little bit 
different language suggestion, but I think the Committee should consider that in this discussion. 
But, broadly speaking, I’m very supportive of alternative B, and I think we’re in good 
shape for today. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. I’m just going to say that, as I mentioned, I do have 
some sympathy toward this, but it comes in three or four possible different flavors, and I think 
Wednesday morning is a really bad time to be trying to have a discussion. I want some time to 
think this through, thinking about “centered around” or “returning to.” There are a bunch of 
different formulations. I don’t want to try to do that on a Wednesday morning, if that’s all right. 
I’m happy to do it for the next meeting. Vice Chair. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. I was going to make the same point. I think that this is 
something we should be discussing in between this meeting and the next meeting. I also think 
that the word “symmetric” is in the sentence. Whenever I think about these ideas, which are 
good ones, the “symmetric” is there, and I’m wondering what the word “symmetric” then means 
in that sentence. So I think, again, it’s something we should be thinking about—how we best 
formulate that and have some shelf life to it. 

CHAIR POWELL. Let’s have that discussion, by all means. It’s a good thought. But, I 
would say, not today. Governor Bowman. 
MS. BOWMAN. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as currently written. I 
continue to expect that the domestic economy will perform well in 2020. As we saw on Friday, 
the labor market continues to be very strong, and the recent readings on inflation have continued 
to come in below our 2 percent target. But in light of the strong labor market and my expectation 
that real GDP growth will remain above its long-run trend rate in 2020, I’m optimistic that we 
will see inflation move up closer to our target at some point next year. 
So I’m comfortable with our current state of monetary policy. With inflationary 
pressures still muted, I think we can afford to wait and see how the risks surrounding the outlook 
evolve over the end of this year and into next. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Quarles. 
MR. QUARLES. Thank you. I support alternative B as written. I think the current 
stance of policy is appropriate to support growth while we continue to monitor the incoming data 
and assess the evolving risks. Given that there are continued signs of weakness in the global 
economy and given the domestic issues regarding investment and manufacturing, the outlook has 
some fragility even as the overall U.S. economy continues to show momentum. And it makes 
sense in these circumstances to stop and assess the economic environment before we decide on 
our next move. 
If the data were to turn decidedly worse or risks to the outlook were to increase 
meaningfully further, we could consider further policy easing. But with continued strong data, a 
global economy that appears to be stabilizing, and a chance of positive developments with regard 
to some of the key risks, I don’t think we’re near the threshold for action at this point. 

That said, I do view the current stance of policy as being very accommodative. 
Eventually, as the growth outlook stabilizes and inflation moves further toward target, I think 
we’ll have to begin gradually removing this accommodation, although, with the economy 
performing well and inflation pressures absent, we can be cautious in our approach. 
And then, I will not repeat the arguments, but just for the minutes, when the Secretary 
preparing them counts heads: repo facility, good. Thank you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President— 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Any repo facility? [Laughter] 
CHAIR POWELL. President George. 
MS. GEORGE. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support alternative B as written. Although 
I did not support this year’s rate cuts as the most appropriate path of policy, today’s decision to 
hold rates steady is a prudent one, in my view, as we look to assess a number of factors going 
into next year. 
With an economy growing at or above potential, a strong labor market, and low and 
stable inflation, we will need time to judge the stance of policy—whether the previous 
adjustments prove to be insurance cuts that will be reversed if headwinds fade; whether the 
adjustment proves to be a reset to a neutral policy stance; or whether downside risk and 
uncertainties persist in a way that keeps investment spending weak and spills over to the 
consumer, altering our modal outlook and requiring further policy action. Not only will the 
Committee need to retain policy flexibility as it assesses incoming data, but also the prospect of 
changes coming from the monetary policy framework review suggests the Committee will need 
to pay particular attention to its communications strategy going into next year, in order to help 
ensure that we effectively meet our objectives. Thank you. 

CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Kashkari. 
MR. KASHKARI. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B. I’m fairly 
comfortable with our current policy stance. I echo President Bullard’s comments. If you look at 
where the Committee was a year ago and compare that with today, it’s a huge shift and, I think, a 
very positive shift for the economy, so I applaud the changes that we’ve made. 
I think the current level of the federal funds rate is close to the inflation rate—both 
around 1.6 percent—so the real rate is close to zero. As we discussed yesterday with Thomas—I 
guess I had a different view than Governor Quarles had—I think it’s highly uncertain how much 
accommodation we’re providing today. I think we’re probably providing some, but maybe not. 
I mean, the long-run neutral rate is uncertain. The short-run neutral rate is even more uncertain 
than the long-run neutral rate. 
For this SEP, I had a big debate with my staff, and I lowered—over some of their 
objections—my long-run federal funds rate to 2 percent. So now I’m the lowest dot. Again, it 
was a point of active debate, but, so far, I’ve regretted not lowering it. I have yet to regret 
lowering it too far. So this is something I’m paying close attention to. 
Given inflation below target and low inflation expectations, I think we should be 
providing some accommodation. The economy is continuing to create jobs, as we discussed 
yesterday—huge benefits to workers across the country. And we’re going to need a “hotter” 
labor market—or a stronger labor market, as President Williams said—to achieve our 2 percent 
inflation target. Are we doing enough? I see the case for pausing now while our earlier policy 
changes filter through the economy. But I think there’s a decent chance we will need to make 
further cuts. 

Looking forward, I’m going to be paying close attention to, obviously, inflation, to labor 
market developments, and to signals about the outlook from financial markets. On the inflation 
front, I’ll be more comfortable if we see actual inflation rise in the next few months, as the staff 
expects. If we don’t, then we’re going to learn that we were, again, too optimistic on inflation 
returning to target. 
I’m also going to closely monitor the labor market for signals about not only the strength 
of the economy as jobs continue to get created, but also, more importantly, wages—and are we, 
in fact, achieving maximum employment? And then I’m going to, finally, pay close attention to 
the yield curve. The curve is uninverted because we lowered the front end, which is great, but 
the long end is still at pretty low levels relative to history, so that’s not an optimistic outlook 
about the future growth prospects. 
Thinking ahead to next year, I think it’s very important that, if inflation does start to firm, 
we don’t revert to old habits and say, “Well, we’re just going to get out ahead of it and raise the 
federal funds rate.” I thought the Chair’s answers in the press conference last time were 
wonderful. When asked what it’s going to take for us to raise rates, you said something about, 
“We’re going to need to see a meaningful uptick in inflation.” I thought that was very 
appropriate. And you’re seeing markets embrace that, meaning, we had this big jobs report last 
week, and you didn’t see the markets respond by saying, “Oh, there goes the Fed. They’re going 
to go hike now to try to clamp down on either the stock market or the federal funds market.” 
Both of them seem to understand now that we’re going to be patient and actually let inflation 
climb to target—and I think that’s a really positive development—so that we can get inflation 
expectations to 2 percent and get inflation to 2 percent. 

And I would—I’ve been saying this for a while—take it further if it were up to me and 
have us formally put in the statement a commitment that we’re not going to raise the federal 
funds rate until we get core inflation back to target on a sustained basis. I think that that would 
demonstrate our solid commitment to achieving our symmetric 2 percent target. Thank you, 
Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Daly. 
MS. DALY. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written. As I noted 
yesterday in my economic statement, I see the data as broadly in line with moderate real GDP 
growth, slightly above my estimate of the trend rate. And this is despite ongoing trade 
uncertainty and weak global conditions, which continue to be headwinds against the domestic 
momentum. 
Now, I attribute this good outlook, in large part, to the policy moves we have made this 
year, which have helped sustain the expansion. And here I concur with Presidents Bullard and 
Kashkari that these are moves that look bigger than just the three rate cuts we’ve taken. 
So with our policy modestly accommodative right now—and I would put it “modestly,” 
because I have a neutral nominal federal funds rate of 2.5 percent—I expect growth to remain 
slightly above trend over the next couple of years, which will further strengthen labor markets 
and help push inflation closer to our 2 percent objective. But as I don’t expect inflation to hit 2 
percent until 2021, I’ve written down a flat path of the policy rate—no change over the next two 
years. 
So while I see policy as appropriate right now, I think it’s important to consider what 
conditions might change my view. And here I want to back up from today’s decision and even 
next month’s decision and actually think about what the future would look like. Certainly, as 

many others have noted, a recessionary shock or evidence of an unwanted run-up in inflation or 
an unsustainable boom would warrant lower or higher rates, respectively. There’s no doubt 
about that. In my experience of listening to the Committee and being on the Committee, these 
types of situations, positive or negative, are actually relatively straightforward for us to identify, 
agree on, and take offsetting measures against. We don’t seem to have as much trouble aligning 
in these cases. 
The harder and somewhat less obvious challenge for us would be if, despite the actions 
we’ve taken, realized or expected inflation remains muted. As many discussed yesterday, 
inflation has serially disappointed throughout this expansion. Indeed, if we look at the 
numbers—I think it’s always useful to remind ourselves, and I like to do that—since 2012, when 
we publicly committed to a 2 percent inflation objective, headline PCE inflation has averaged 
just 1.4 percent, and core PCE inflation has averaged only 1.6 percent. I actually looked back, 
and, since we adopted the word “symmetric” in our statement, core and headline inflation rates 
have averaged just 1.7 percent. 
So this is not a stellar record in terms of meeting our symmetric inflation goal. I find this 
problematic for several reasons, and I’ll just repeat them either for the minutes or in the hope that 
it’ll influence. First, as President Evans said yesterday and others have noted, when we say 
2 percent, we actually need to hit 2 percent over time to keep our commitment to maintain long-
run credibility. I think the literature on inflation expectations being well anchored supports that 
view. 
Second, in the proximity of the lower bound, we need all of the policy space we can get, 
and I do not want to enter the next downturn with one or two fewer rate cuts at our disposal 
because inflation and inflation expectations have slipped further. I think it may not seem like 

much, but you could say, in the low interest rate environment we face, every tenth matters. And 
while President Bostic noted that it was just one or two rate cuts, that’s a lot when you’re 
thinking you’re starting at 2.5 percent as the neutral rate. 
Third, though my policy rate path balances the risks as much as possible, in the world 
that we face today, the pressure on inflation and the risks to the inflation outlook are still likely 
tilted to the downside. Here I’m influenced by work that many have done, but Vice Chair 
Williams and coauthors have looked at signs of an increasing downward pressure on inflation. 
And if we don’t get it back up to 2 percent in the good times, it’s really hard to fight this 
downward trend. 
And, finally, as I discussed in my framework review statement, communicating that we 
view our 2 percent inflation objective as vitally important will be much easier if we actually 
achieve it on a sustained basis. 
So, in sum, fighting inflation from below our target is, to me, a new reality. I’m hopeful 
that the actions we’ve taken this year are enough to sustainably achieve our inflation objective. 
However, if the policy accommodation we’ve taken thus far should fail to move inflation back to 
2 percent, I would envision, barring substantial increases in financial vulnerabilities, providing 
further accommodation and would, as Governor Brainard said yesterday, work hard to develop 
communications plans that communicate our rationale in a simple way to the public. 
To conclude: I see the language in alternative B that we have for today as balancing the 
good place we are in today—and I do think we’re in a good place—with the reality that we will 
need to continue to monitor both the world around us and the path of expected inflation. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. President Mester. 

MS. MESTER. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Based on my assessment of incoming economic 
information, my outlook, and the risks to the outlook, I support no change in the federal funds 
rate at this meeting, as in alternative B. The economy is in a good spot for us to take the time to 
assess the effect of the recent rate cuts and the flattening of our policy rate path and see how the 
employment and inflation situations evolve. 
I also support the language in alternative B today. At some point, I think we’re going to 
need to consider how best to characterize the labor market in paragraph 2. We’ve been in a very 
good situation for a while. The unemployment rate is quite low, and job growth has been well 
above trend. So we’ve been able to call the labor market conditions “strong” in paragraph 2. 
But once employment slows to trend, we might want to think about whether that language needs 
to be amended even if the unemployment rate is low. And if the Tealbook’s alternative view of 
employment is right and employment growth is actually weaker than we think, we may want to 
change the language to something that’s more in line with that possibility. 
Now, you’ve heard me talk in a number of previous meetings about our FOMC statement 
and the structure of our statement. I prefer to see them evolve, toward giving more sense of our 
outlook and our policy reaction function than the current format allows. Now we have a 
situation in which we are reluctant—yes, and rightly so—to make changes to particular words in 
the statement because of the signal that that may send. I think the framework review is actually 
an excellent opportunity for us to really escape the “Hotel California” aspects of our statement, 
and we can take a broader view, think about the structure and the content of those FOMC 
statements, and then package that, with any changes that we might make, with the consensus 
statement. I hope that that might be part of our framework review. 

You’ve also heard me say before, regarding the consensus statement, that whatever we 
end up focusing on as potential changes—whether it be a range or whether it be an average 
inflation over some period—I’d like to put those through some scenario analyses. I’d like to 
really think about, okay, had we had this as the way we frame our goal, how would that have 
changed our policy rate path? 
I think also the discussions that we had over the past couple of meetings, including 
yesterday, really emphasize that just saying something isn’t enough. We really need to have a 
strategy for how we’re going to get there. It’s really trying to engender some kind of 
commitment, like “How can we better do that?” 
So there are things that you can imagine doing. Some of the Cleveland staff are 
investigating whether there are ways to use the SEP—maybe giving a little more prescription 
about what “appropriate policy rate path” is, like when you’re actually saying something. So 
you can imagine saying, “Appropriate policy is bringing the average inflation rate up to 2 percent 
over the next two years.” Being more prescriptive about what you actually are asking us as 
participants to use in our SEPs might actually be a way of engendering better thoughts about how 
we’re going to actually implement policy. 
So I’m really looking forward to the framework review next year and what we’re going 
to go through. I think thinking about financial stability issues is very important. I’m glad we’re 
having that discussion in January. But I also think that we now need to focus in on a couple of 
suggested ways of where we’re leaning toward going and then put it through its paces. Thank 
you, Mr. Chair. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Governor Brainard. 

MS. BRAINARD. Thank you. Every financial conditions index I consult is now in the 
lower part of its historical range, and it’s likely to remain there, given expectations of monetary 
policy. I am increasingly concerned about financial imbalances in this late-cycle environment, 
particularly given deregulatory pressures. The prospect of prolonged accommodative financial 
conditions, with growth running above potential, can be expected to fuel imbalances. Indeed, the 
mid-1990s mid-cycle adjustment was followed by a prolonged period of rising valuations of risk 
assets in a deregulatory environment. And that did not end well. 
We learned in recent cycles that we should not wait for financial vulnerabilities to be 
flashing red to strengthen our safeguards. Risk appetite and leverage are strongly procyclical, 
and we see signs of this, clear signs, in current elevated risky corporate debt and the valuations 
of risk assets. 
It would be prudent in the context of the anticipated trajectory of financial conditions, 
with growth running above potential, to guard against these kinds of amplifications by active use 
of macroprudential tools and resisting weakening of through-the-cycle safeguards. That, in my 
view, would be the best approach to free up monetary policy to achieve its dual-mandate goals. 
So let me turn to that. 
Since we last met, data on spending and employment have been stronger than anticipated, 
and they provide reassurance that the economy’s momentum is solid and suggest a deceleration 
from the first to the second half of this year has been relatively modest. Employment is strong, 
and, in fact, the payroll data suggest that there’s some acceleration rather than deceleration from 
the first to the second half even after accounting for idiosyncratic factors. The spending data 
have been solid, consumer sentiment is upbeat, and consumer spending remains solid. 

Business investment, trade, and manufacturing remain downbeat, reflecting weak growth 
abroad and trade conflict. But, so far, there’s still no sign that the softness in these sectors is 
spilling over to the broader economy. 
Risks remain, but financial market indicators suggest market participants see a 
diminution in downside risks and greater resilience of domestic activity to headwinds from 
abroad, and recession probabilities implied by models using market data have declined 
significantly. 
Inflation, by contrast, remains stubbornly below target, and survey-based measures of 
inflation compensation, as well as market-based measures of inflation compensation, are, on net, 
little improved and, as Governor Clarida said, suggest that inflation expectations are somewhat 
below our target. As Presidents Evans, Bullard, Daly, Kashkari, and others have noted, this 
means our job is not done. Core inflation of 1.6 percent is not okay. 
In recent months, the Committee has taken significant action to provide insurance against 
the risks associated with trade conflict and weak foreign growth against a backdrop of muted 
inflation. Since July, we’ve lowered the target range for the federal funds rate by ¾ percentage 
point, which is a lot, given that the size of the overall buffer is much smaller. The federal funds 
rate is now well below the Committee’s median estimate of the long-run neutral rate. It’ll take 
some time for the full effect of this accommodation to work its way through economic activity, 
the labor market, and inflation. With policy now appropriate, this is a good moment to move to 
the sidelines and allow those effects to play out. 
Since our previous meeting, communications have been handled extremely well, and 
market expectations seem well aligned with what I perceive to be the Committee’s reaction 
function. The Survey of Market Participants suggested little to no expectation of changes to our 

policy stance language today relative to the October language. And, like many others, my 
inclination would not have been to include global developments in the statement about 
monitoring the implications of incoming information. Our actions have helped buffer domestic 
consumers and employment from the headwinds associated with trade uncertainty and weaker 
foreign growth. 
In addition, because inflation is our target and not purely an exogenous development, 
now would be a good time to clarify our determination to achieve true symmetry on inflation 
outcomes. So I also would prefer to replace that word “near,” because the meaning of that 
sentence has actually now changed. As we have said that we now judge policy to be in an 
appropriate place to support these outcomes, inflation near 2 percent is no longer acceptable. 
That said, I know that the Chair has weighed all of these considerations, and I am very 
happy to support alternative B as written. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you. Vice Chair Williams. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I support alternative B as written as 
well. Recent developments point in the direction of the expansion remaining on track, and 
economic and financial conditions are supportive of achieving our dual-mandate goals. 
Although uncertainties on trade and geopolitical developments remain a concern, I, like 
President Bullard, am increasingly assigning these to the category of the new normal that we’ll 
have to navigate for the foreseeable future rather than an unusual or unique risk to the outlook 
today. 
Barring unforeseen contingencies, our policy stance appears well calibrated. A current 
assessment of appropriate policy sees us staying at the current target range through next year, 

consistent with an economy growing about at trend, an employment rate staying close to its 
current level, and inflation moving back to our 2 percent target. 
In looking at my forecast, which is very similar to the median of the SEP, what is striking 
when you look at the median SEP—and I’m going to pick up on some themes that President 
Kashkari talked about yesterday and today. I’m going to agree with him, so he may want to 
rebut my comment in a moment. [Laughter] Look at our forecast. I’m just going to take the 
average. Basically, the median GDP growth forecast is 1.9 percent over the next three years, 
equal to its long-run value. The unemployment rate forecast averages 3.6 percent, roughly where 
it is, relative to a long-run of 4.1 percent. The inflation average is about 2 percent, and the real 
federal funds rate averages around zero or slightly negative throughout the end of 2022. 
So this issue—what are the long run and the short run?—I think we need to be better at 
talking about this and communicating this. When I look at this forecast—when I look at my 
forecast—I’m essentially saying that, for all intents and purposes, maximum employment is 
roughly the unemployment rate today, and it will be for the next few years. So I don’t see this 
issue about, are we trying to stimulate the economy to get inflation back to target? Absolutely. 
But we’re also trying to provide the economic conditions to keep the unemployment rate where it 
is today or maybe even a little bit lower, and I think that’s consistent with both of our dual-
mandate goals. And, in a way, that 4.1 percent number, my personal estimate for the long-run 
natural rate of unemployment, may be getting in the way of our thinking about really what we 
think our dual-mandate goals are. 
Similarly with the natural rate—although I kind of feel like I should be in a race to the 
bottom on r* estimates with President Kashkari here. The idea that many of us, including 
myself, are holding to an r* of ½ percent, real, or 2½ percent, nominal—but when you look at 

our forecast, at least the median, real interest rates are zero for as far as the eye can see, and 
that’s not leading to any inflation or an economy significantly overshooting the target. 
So, from my point of view, what does it mean that the economy is in a good place? It’s 
basically for the economy to be as strong as it is today, or maybe even somewhat stronger; real 
interest rates to be roughly zero; and, I hope, inflation to be at 2 percent or maybe even slightly 
above that. And I just think that’s something, as we think about how we communicate and talk 
about the economy and as we think about the framework review and some of these issues that 
President Mester mentioned about how we frame our statement, that we should keep in mind. 
The last thing is, I am still a huge fan of the SEP and the dot plot. I know it’s not 
everybody’s cup of tea, but I think it is helpful here. It shows that nobody on the Committee is 
calling for—at least in the baseline, under appropriate policy—rate cuts. Generally, the 
Committee participants see the funds rate as flat next year and there being, at most, one or two 
rate cuts in 2021 and 2022—which I think is probably just a statement about the economy getting 
back to some kind of long run or steady state that we have out there. 
So I think that the SEP, in this case, both the baseline forecast of what we think “good” 
looks like—an unemployment rate around 3½ percent, inflation around 2 percent or maybe a bit 
above, and real interest rates that are very low—and the dot plot, is actually very helpful to 
explain our thinking. I know that the dots aren’t perfect, and Chairs have not always loved the 
dots at every point in time, but I do think that these are capturing pretty well where many of the 
people on the Committee are. Thank you. 
CHAIR POWELL. Great. Thanks very much. Thanks to everyone. Let me now ask 
Jim to make clear what the FOMC will vote on and to read the roll. Following the FOMC vote, 
the Board will vote on the interest rates on reserves and discount rates. Jim. 

MR. CLOUSE. Thank you. The vote will be on the monetary policy statement as it 
appears on page 4 of Thomas’s briefing materials and will also encompass the directive to the 
Desk as it appears in the implementation note shown on pages 6 and 7 of Thomas’s briefing 
materials. 
Chair Powell Yes 
Vice Chair Williams Yes 
Governor Bowman Yes 
Governor Brainard Yes 
President Bullard Yes 
Governor Clarida Yes 
President Evans Yes 
President George Yes 
President Rosengren Yes 
Governor Quarles Yes 
 
CHAIR POWELL. Now we have two sets of related matters under the Board’s 
jurisdiction: corresponding interest rates on reserves and discount rates. May I have a motion 
from a Board member to take the proposed action with respect to the interest rates on reserves as 
set forth in the first paragraph associated with policy alternative B on the last page of Thomas’s 
briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Thank you. Now may I have a motion from a 
Board member to take the proposed actions with respect to the primary credit rate and the rates 
for secondary and seasonal credit as set forth in the second paragraph associated with policy 
alternative B on the last page of Thomas’s briefing materials? 
MR. CLARIDA. So moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. May I have a second? 

MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Before we confirm the date of our next meeting 
and conclude, I am very pleased to tell you that the comprehensive selection process for 
choosing a new SOMA manager has concluded, with superb results. And I turn it over to Vice 
Chair Williams, who will tell us more. 
VICE CHAIR WILLIAMS. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And, yes, we did have an extensive 
search, as everyone knows, and great collaboration with my colleagues here at the Board and in 
the System on that. 
I’m pleased to propose that Lorie Logan be named the SOMA manager. You all know 
Lorie and her accomplishments—her expertise in financial markets and deep understanding of 
how they are connected to monetary policy. She’s been outstanding throughout her career in this 
area, but I would point specifically to the past several months. This is obviously with respect to 
developments in the repo markets and related issues, which occurred while the whole ample-
reserves framework was being developed—the implementation of that—and, obviously, the past 
three months, with the disruption in repo markets. 
Lorie and her team acted very quickly to diagnose what happened, came up very quickly 
with an immediate plan to bring calm to the markets, and then quickly turned to developing the 
medium-term strategy, which we discussed in our October 4 meeting and executed starting 
October 11, to bring both calm and effective implementation of monetary policy. The speed, the 
expertise and understanding on the issues, and coming up with that plan, I think, were really key 
parts of the success. 
Not only were Lorie and her team doing that, but they were also thinking ahead to the 
medium-term objectives. How do we not just get through September? How do we not just get 

through October? And, obviously, how do we get through December? But, also, how do we 
prepare for the longer-term future in terms of ample reserves? You saw the work that’s under 
way on that and the issues that we are working on and her team has been working on in terms of 
early next year—completing the process of getting to ample reserves, planning ahead along the 
various dimensions that we’ve been talking about yesterday and today, and making that 
successful. 
So my full-hearted recommendation is for the Committee to approve Lorie Logan as the 
SOMA manager. 
CHAIR POWELL. Thank you very much, John. Do I have a motion to approve Lorie 
Logan to manage the System account? 
MR. CLARIDA. With great enthusiasm, so moved. 
CHAIR POWELL. A second? 
MS. BRAINARD. Second. 
CHAIR POWELL. Without objection. Lorie, congratulations. [Applause] 
Lorie’s selection needs to be acted on by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. So, 
because of the timing of their board of directors meeting, the public announcement of this 
selection won’t be until Thursday. Please be sure to keep Lorie’s selection confidential until the 
announcement. In the meantime, you’re more than welcome—and even encouraged [laughter]—
to offer your congratulations to Lorie. 
Our final agenda item is to confirm that the next meeting will be on Tuesday and 
Wednesday, January 28–29, 2020. That concludes this meeting—buffet lunch soon. Thanks, 
everyone, and have a great holiday. 
END OF MEETING
